GOOD EVENING EVERYONE
AND WELCOME TO THE JULY SIX
MEETING OF THE ENTIRE CITY
COUNCIL, IF YOU WILL PLEASE
RISE AND JOIN US FROM THE
SILENCE FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
>> I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
FLAG OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA AND TO THE REPUBLIC
FOR WHICH IT STANDS ONE NATION
UNDER GOD INDIVISIBLE WITH
LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR ALL BUT
OUR CAN'T PLEASE CALL THE ROLE
OF COUNCIL SOMETHING REDISH
APSA CUSTOMER HARRISON FORD.
OUR SONG HERE COMES MY WATSON
HERE COMES MY WAY DENHA HERE
COMES MARKAZI HERE MAYOR TAYLOR
HERE COMES MARIAH HERE COMES
RIGHT HERE FOR BREAKS YEAH VERY
CORDIAL HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM
IN A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCILOR
ACKMANN SECOND MY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGGS DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA FAVOR OPPOSED THE AGENDA
IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
.
WOULD YOU HAVE AN INTRODUCTION
TO THAT CHAIR OF OUR
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION CHAIR
CARTER.
>> CHAIR CARTER, YOU HAVE TO
COME THAT EVENING MR. MOORE,
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL MADAM CLERK
STEPHANIE CUTTER.
I AM THE CHAIR OF THE
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY OVERSIGHT
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION.
SEVEN YEARS AGO TO THE DAY JULY
6TH TWENTY SIXTEEN FOR LANDAL
CASTIEL WAS SHOT AND KILLED AS
A RESULT OF A TRAFFIC STOP.
IT WAS REPORTED THAT THE STOP
WAS BECAUSE OF A CRACKED
TAILLIGHT.
IT'S ALSO BEEN REPORTED THAT
PERHAPS THE STOP WAS BECAUSE
OF TINTED WINDOWS.
I DON'T BELIEVE IN COINCIDENCE
AND SO I DON'T BELIEVE THAT IT
IS ON THAT ANNIVERSARY THAT WE
ARE HERE TO CONSIDER THE
DRIVING EQUITY ORDINANCE.
NOR DO I THINK IT IS
COINCIDENTAL THAT THIS
ORDINANCE COMES BEFORE YOU ON
THE SECOND READING AT PRETTY
MUCH THE SAME TIME THAT THE EMU
SMART TRAFFIC STUDY CAME OUT.
NOW LET ME TALK FOR JUST A
SECOND ABOUT THAT TRAFFIC
STUDY.
AS I HAVE SAID BEFORE WHEN I
CAME BEFORE YOU PARK AND TO
HAVE A PUBLIC FORUM AT OUR NEXT
MEETING IT WILL BE SEPTEMBER
TWENTY SIXTH THAT THE LOCATION
WILL BE ANNOUNCED.
WE ARE INVITING COUNCIL.
WE ARE INVITING ALL THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
WE'RE INVITING THE PUBLIC AND
WE HOPE THAT EVERYONE COMES OUT
WHO HAS AN INTEREST IN
DISCUSSING WHETHER TO CRITICIZE
OR WHATEVER WITH REGARD TO THIS
REPORT WE'RE INTERESTED IN
PUBLIC INPUT AND THEN WE EXPECT
THAT THAT BIG PARK WILL BE
DISCUSSING SOME OF THE
RECOMMENDATIONS IN THAT TRAFFIC
STUDY.
BUT LET ME JUST POINT TO A
COUPLE OF THE CONCLUSIONS ON
THAT TRAFFIC STUDY BASED
ANALYSIS CONCLUSIVELY
IDENTIFIED SIGNIFICANT
DISPARITIES ACROSS EVERY
DIMENSION EXAMINED WITH LONG
BLACK MOTORISTS BEING STOPPED
AND SEARCHED MASS SECRETELY AND
WHITE MOTORISTS BEING STOPPED
AND SEARCHED LESS FREQUENTLY
THAN WOULD BE EXPECTED IN EVERY
INSTANCE JUSTICE IS IDENTIFIED
IN THIS ANALYSIS ON
AFRICAN-AMERICAN MALE DRIVERS
FOR STOPS IN RELATED FOR
EQUIPMENT VIOLATIONS EXACTLY
WHAT NAMES, ADDRESSES.
>> I ALSO WANT TO READ A QUOTE
.
THIS IS A QUOTE THAT THE STUDY
QUOTES FROM
A LARGER NATIONWIDE
STUDY THAT WAS DONE ON TWENTY
TWENTY AND I RELATED THE LARGER
SCALE NATIONAL STUDY ANALYZING
TRAFFIC STOP DISPARITIES THESE
PERSON WITH THE NAME OF THE
OF THE EXAMINER CONCLUDED I
QUOTE THE DOWNSTREAM EFFECT
OF TRAFFIC STOPS CAN BE
INJURIOUS.
EVEN THE BODY WILL STOP
DECISIONS ARE NOT DIRECTLY
AFFECTED BY THE COLOR OF SKIN.
SIMILARLY, ENFORCEMENT OF MINOR
TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS LIKE BROKEN
TAILLIGHT EVEN IF CONDUCTED
UNIFORMLY AND WITHOUT A. PLACE
HEAVIER BURDENS ON BLACK AND
HISPANIC DRIVERS WITHOUT
IMPROVING PUBLIC SAFETY
, LABOR
IS ABOUT TO BE ON THE FOREFRONT
OF WHAT I THINK IS GOING TO BE
A NATIONAL MOVEMENT AND ACROSS
THE COUNTRY FOLKS LIKE US ARE
LOOKING AT DOING AWAY WITH WHAT
REALLY PRODUCES UNNECESSARY
CONTACTS BETWEEN THE POLICE AND
THE PUBLIC TOTALLY UNNECESSARY.
YOU KNOW, IF ANY OF YOU DRIVE
AND YOU DRIVE OUT OF STATE IN
PLACES WHERE THEY HAVE TOLL
ROADS, YOU DON'T OFTEN SEE
SOMEBODY SITTING IN THOSE TOLL
BOOTHS ANYMORE COLLECTING THE
TOLL.
THEY TAKE A PICTURE OF YOUR CAR
AND THEY SEND YOU YOUR BILL.
THIS ORDINANCE PROVIDES FOR
THAT TYPE OF ENFORCEMENT THAT'S
NEEDED FOR MINOR TRAFFIC
VIOLATIONS AND SO WITHOUT
SACRIFICING THE PUBLIC SAFETY
OF THOSE OF US WHO LIVE IN THE
CITY AND THOSE WHO WORK IN THE
CITY, THEN I DON'T COME FROM
OTHER PLACES I READ YOU TO
ADOPT THE DRIVING EQUITY
ORDINANCE.
>> AS I SAY, THE OAK PARK PLANS
ONCE AGAIN I CAN'T EMPHASIZE
THIS ENOUGH BECAUSE SOMETIMES
YOU PUT SOMETHING OUT THERE AND
YOU HOPE THAT PEOPLE RESPOND TO
IT AND WE'RE HOPING THAT
COUNCIL AND THE PUBLIC WILL
RESPOND BY COMING OUT SEPTEMBER
TWENTY SIX WE WILL ANNOUNCE OUR
LOCATION.
IT PROBABLY WILL NOT BE HERE IN
CITY HALL AND WE'D LIKE TO
DISCUSS THIS.
WE'D LIKE TO HAVE A PUBLIC
FORUM BUT HOPEFULLY BY THAT
TIME THE DRIVING EQUITY
ORDINANCE WILL ALREADY BE
ADOPTED.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
GENERAL TIME ABOUT PREPARATION
.
MA'AM, AM I WELCOME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT GENERAL TIME PUBLIC
KIND OF GENERAL TIME IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL IN
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
IN PUBLIC COMMENT GENERAL TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL CASES
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN TO
SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR CLERK
WILL NOTIFY YOU IN 30 SECONDS
ARE REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME IS EXPIRED, WHEN YOUR TIME
IS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
REMARKS AND SEE THE FLOOR FIRST
SPEAKER TODAY IS RITA ROSS RITA
ROSS PHONE NUMBER NINE SIX
THREE STAR SIX TIME AT YOUR
PHONE
RITA ROSS YOU CAN ON MUTE
YOUR PHONE
GO AHEAD.
HELLO MY NAME IS RITA ROSS AND
I REPRESENT AREHART
ASSOCIATION.
THE EVENING AS PRESIDENT MYSELF
AND MANY MEMBERS OF OUR
ASSOCIATION HAVE ATTENDED THE
COMMUNITY MEETINGS REGARDING
THE AIRPORT ROAD TWENTY TWENTY
THREE PROJECT SINCE TWO
THOUSAND AND NINETEEN.
>> I HAVE SPOKEN AND WRITTEN TO
YOU ABOUT THIS PROJECT FOR OVER
A YEAR.
WE HAVE ONE SECRET DOCUMENT
RESURFACING FOR MANY YEARS OUR
WORK TO ELIMINATE THE HIJACK
BECAUSE IT WOULD NOT SERVE OUR
PURPOSE AND SO BECAUSE
SIGNIFICANT GAP REMAIN IN FRONT
OF PHOSPHORIC COMMUNITY FOR
DEMITRIUS AND BETWEEN THE
PINETREE STREETS WITH NO PLAN
TO FILL THOSE GAPS ALSO BECAUSE
IT WOULD INFRINGE UPON AND
SIGNIFICANTLY HARM OUR PROPERTY
AND LIKELY SERIOUSLY DAMAGE OUR
MATURE TREES AND PAINTING AND
WE WERE VERY DISAPPOINTED THAT
IT TOOK THE NUMEROUS ATTEMPTS
TO BE HEARD BY A CITY.
>> HE ATTENDED MEETINGS.
WE MADE PUBLIC COMMENTS, WE
WROTE LETTERS BUT THERE WAS NO
RESPONSE FROM OUR
REPRESENTATIVE GOVERNMENT OUR
OWN WARD.
TWO COUNCIL MEMBERS WERE TOLD
NOT TO SPEAK WITH US.
IT WAS NOT UNTIL WE HIRED AN
ATTORNEY TO FORCE THE RESPONSE
AND TO SIGN PETITIONS THAT WE
FINALLY RECEIVED SOME RESPONSE
WE SHOULD NOT HAVE HAD TO TAKE
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS TO SUPPORT
A REPRESENTATIVE GOVERNMENT TO
RESPOND AND TO WORK WITH US
ULTIMATELY BEEN SENDING THE
FAILING GOOD MEET AND
COLLABORATE WITH US.
>> THEY LISTENED TO CONCERNS
RESPECTFULLY AND SERIOUSLY.
THEY INVESTIGATED OUR
SUGGESTION TO MOVE THE PROJECT
WEST OR CLOSER TO THE MEDIAN
WHICH MAY MAKE THE SIDEWALK TO
BE CLOSER TO THE EXISTING
DETAINEES THE RETAINING WALL,
THE SIZE AND CONFIGURATION TO
LIMIT THE DAMAGE TO OUR
PROPERTY AND AGREED TO REPLACE
MICROLIGHT ABOUT THREE FOUR
EVERGREEN FOR ANY TREES THAT
NEEDED TO BE REMOVED TO
ACCOMMODATE THEIR DESIRE.
WE DO HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT
TRAFFIC ISSUES DURING THE
CONSTRUCTION PHASE BUT WE TO
BAILEY AND HUTCHINSON FOR THEIR
COLLABORATION AND WE LOOK
FORWARD OUR CONTINUING PROJECT
PARTNERSHIP DURING THE
CONSTRUCTION AND REFORESTATION
PHASE OF THE PROJECT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GORDON.
MY CONDOLENCES TO THE MAYOR AND
HIS FAMILY FOR THE LOSS OF HIS
FATHER IN LAW A VERY WORTHY MAN
.
I AM GOING TO HAVE TO CONSULT
WITH MEMBERS OF THE
ADMINISTRATION ABOUT ISSUES
OF THE USE OF ASPHALT AND
RESERVE FOR ST. STREET IN ANN
ARBOR AND ABOUT THE CIRCULATION
STUDY THAT IS PROPOSED FOR THE
DOWNTOWN AREA OF ANN ARBOR.
BUT I WANT YOU TO KNOW THAT I
AGREE WITH ALAN HABOUR THAT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY LOT SHOULD BE
A PUBLIC PARK.
THE DOWNTOWN HAS NO CHILD
FRIENDLY OPEN SPACE.
>> CHILDREN ARE NOT A POLITICAL
CONSTITUENCY.
THEY CAN'T VOTE.
>> THERE'S NO QUID PRO QUO
THERE.
>> YOU ALL TOOK THE LIBERAL
DEMOCRAT WHEN YOU RAN FOR
OFFICE IN MAY AND THE MAJORITY
OF THE COUNCIL SOLICITED HIGH
RISE BUILDINGS AND SLAVISHLY
REZONE PROPERTIES TO SERVE
THEM.
>> THAT'S 20TH CENTURY
REPUBLICAN BEHAVIOR ON YOU
SILENCED AFTER READING OPEN MY
LAST YEAR NOVEMBER WAS TWENTY
FIRST CENTURY REPUBLICAN
BEHAVIOR.
IF YOU WERE PROUD OF WHAT YOU
DO YOU WOULD NOT FEAR YOU
OPENED MIKE AND NO IS PRECIOUS
TO ME.
I'M ASHAMED OF YOU SO
BECAME
SPEAKER ALEX NO
ALEX LOWE DO
YOU HAVE COMMENT?
>> >> I COMING IN FROM SABC
SAID WHAT?
I JUST WANT TO MAKE A BRIEF
MENTION HERE ONE I'M GLAD TO
SEE IT.
I WISH THAT WE COULD JUST HAVE
BE LIKE THAT LIKE THAT ALSO AND
QUITE FRANKLY I WISH THAT WE
COULD TAKE FORTH BETWEEN THEM
WITH THAT WITH THEM AND IN
WASHINGTON AND MAKE IT POSSIBLE
THAT WE CAN CONNECT TO THE THE
VARIOUS AREAS THAT DOWNTOWN
THAT RIGHT NOW FOLLOW UP WITH
THAT DIVISION ARE SEPARATED
INTO DIFFERENT AREAS THAT CAN
BE HARD TO GET ACROSS BECAUSE
OF ALL OF THE TRAFFIC AND THEY
NEED TO WAIT
.
I WOULD JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I
REALLY THINK THAT THE THE
CONVERSATION THAT WE'RE HAVING
IN PUBLIC COMMENTS IS
IMPORTANT
BUT THAT SEEMS TO BE MISLEADING
AND IT REMINDS ME OF SOMETHING
I HEARD THAT RECENTLY SAID
HIPPIES ARE HORRIBLE PEOPLE WHO
ARE PRETENDING TO BE NICE AND
AND SO THE NICE PEOPLE WERE
PRETENDING TO BE HORRIBLE AND
KILLING A LOT OF THIS WITH THE
SOME OF THE COMMENTS THAT WERE
HEARING THAT ARE OPPOSED TO,
YOU KNOW, BUILDING HOUSING FOR
PEOPLE THAT ARE OPPOSED TO
BUILDING SIDEWALKS ETC. THAT'S
REALLY, REALLY BAD FEET HURT
BECAUSE THE BIG IF WE REALLY
CARE ABOUT A CHILDREN AND NOT
NONVOTERS, WE'LL GIVE THEM A
PLACE LIVE THAT WILL GIVE THEM
A STABLE WAY TO WALK AROUND THE
CITY.
BUT IT IS THIRTY SECONDS AT OUR
CURRENT PACE WE'LL HAVE
FINISHED FILMING ALL OUR
SIDEWALK AT THE CITY IN ANOTHER
FIFTY YEARS AND IF WE CONTINUE
AT OUR AT OUR PLACE WE WILL
HAVE ALL AGES AND ABILITIES
LIKE THROUGHOUT THE CITY
PROBABLY NEVER AND THAT IS NOT
GOOD ENOUGH.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN ON SARABIA IS RUNNING
FOR CITY COUNCIL AND WORD FOR
THAT'S THE TOPIC OF MY TALK
PARTLY AND IT'S ALSO THE TOPIC
OF HER TALK.
DR. JOHN SARABETH FOR ME IS
ANNOUNCING TONIGHT THAT SHE'S
RUNNING FOR CITY COUNCIL AN
AWARD FOR IN THE NEXT ELECTION
.
THE CITY COUNCIL HAS STOOD SO
FIERCELY AGAINST ANY
PALESTINIAN HUMAN RIGHTS
RESOLUTION FOR SO MANY YEARS.
THINK ABOUT THINK ABOUT IT.
A LOT OF THESE PEOPLE FOR
PALESTINIANS TREPANG THAT WAY.
HOW DO YOU THINK THEY'RE GOING
TO TREAT HOW DO YOU THINK
THEY'RE GOING TO TREAT YOU WHEN
PALESTINIANS ARE DISPOSABLE?
21 STRAIGHT LETTERS DEMANDING A
SIMPLE HUMAN RIGHTS RESOLUTION
AGAINST THE APARTHEID STATE
OF ISRAEL AND THE CITY COUNCIL
HAS THROWN EVERY OBSTACLE IN
OUR WAY.
WE WANT TO GO ON ITS FIRST
PRACTICALLY BANGED OUT OF OUR
OWN HAS TAKEN CAMPAGNA FROM OLD
FRIENDS OF THE ISRAEL DEFENSE
FORCES.
YES.
THIS WEEK INSIDE THE ISRAEL
DEFENSE FORCES HELICOPTER
GUNSHIPS PACKED ALREADY PACKED
REFUGEE CAMP OF PALESTINIANS.
THIS IS THE KIND OF RACISM
STATE OF A CITY COUNCIL THAT
WE'RE FACED WITH AGAIN EVER SO
DISPOSABLE, SO MISERABLE.
>> WHY DO YOU THINK THEY THINK
ABOUT YOU?
WHAT DO YOU THINK THEY THINK
I'M 570 A PALESTINIAN HUMAN.
ABOUT YOU?
THE CITY COUNCIL GETS UP ON
I'M 570 A PALESTINIAN HUMAN.
THEIR CHAIR AND SCORES.
THE CITY COUNCIL GETS UP ON
YOU HEAR WHAT HAPPENED THAT
THEIR CHAIR AND SCORES.
ENDED IN 1945 AND THIS COUNCIL
YOU HEAR WHAT HAPPENED THAT
USES THE HOLOCAUST AS A WEAPON
ENDED IN 1945 AND THIS COUNCIL
AGAINST THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE
USES THE HOLOCAUST AS A WEAPON
TO HELP ISRAEL TO MAKE
AGAINST THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE
PALESTINIANS PALESTINIAN HUMAN
TO HELP ISRAEL TO MAKE
RIGHTS.
PALESTINIANS PALESTINIAN HUMAN
THEY JUMP UP AND CAN SCREAM
RIGHTS.
ANTI-SEMITISM AS A WEAPON
THEY JUMP UP AND CAN SCREAM
AGAINST THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
ANTI-SEMITISM AS A WEAPON
HUMAN RIGHTS AT SOME POINT
AGAINST THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
PRACTICALLY CRYING THE BABY.
HUMAN RIGHTS AT SOME POINT
ALL THE SUFFERINGS OF THE
PRACTICALLY CRYING THE BABY.
HOLOCAUST WILL BE
DEMAND FOR
BLACK PEOPLE FROM NATIONS AT
THE END OF THE DAY AND STILL
SEE ISRAEL'S NEXT PICTURE JOHN
TUNIE, I'M HERE AGAIN BECAUSE I
AM AT THE CAMPAIGN AND WE PLACE
THIS LADY IS RACIST AND SHE HAS
ACCEPTED MONEY FROM DEFENSE
FORCES ISRAEL IS A TERRORIST
ORGANIZATION AND MY CHILDREN
THEY CAN GET THEIR HANDS ON
RACING UNDER THE SUN.
MY KID IS CLAIMS AND THE UNITED
STATES PAYS FOR THESE
ATROCITIES BY SPENDING BILLIONS
OF EACH YEAR TAXES.
IF I PLAN TO USE OF PEOPLE BUY
STUFF I LIKE TO HAVE TO DO THIS
TO MY PEOPLE IT IS ENOUGH
KILLED ON THE SAME DAY AND
RESTAURANTS AND HAVE IS HAVE
DEFENSE AND THIS AND THAT AND
THE SECOND ONE IS SAYING TO
BRING UP IMAGES OF PEOPLE
CONCENTRATION CAMPS AND SAY
PALESTINIANS AND THAT PEOPLE IN
TRYING TO CONVINCE PEOPLE THAT
THIS ON PLEASE IN THIS COUNTRY
THIS
BECAUSE HEXAPOD HOUSE AND
YOU PAY AND WE TEND TO BE
SETTING
ITS BORDERS PEOPLE AND
THIS TIME PASSES THIS TIME
RIGHT BEFORE SOME PALESTINIANS
AND I CAN'T STAND IT CAN STAND
BY RACISM.
THIS NATION I THEY'RE
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON.
I'D LIKE TO THANK THE WORD TO
RESIDENTS WHO CAME OUT OF MY
COFFEE ON JUNE 25TH AND IN LIEU
OF A JULY COFFEE I'D LIKE TO
INVITE WORD TO RESIDENTS TO
JOIN ME AT THE BROMLEY
NEIGHBORHOOD BEST FEST WHICH
I'M TOLD WILL BE A COMMUNITY
FESTIVAL WITH LOUD MUSIC AND
VENDORS THAT WILL COVER SUNDAY
,JULY 16TH THE DOLPHIN POOL
FROM UP TO FIVE P.M. AND I'LL
BE POSTING MORE INFORMATION ON
ALL MY SOCIAL MEDIA CHANNELS
BUT PLEASE COME OUT AND ENJOY
THE SUMMER AND WE CAN EVEN LET
TALK SOME WATER ISSUES.
THANK YOU COUNSELOR SONG I WAS
SORRY TO MISS THE LAST COUNCIL
MEETING WHEN I WELL WITH MY SON
BUT I DID WATCH THE BEING FROM
HOME AND I WAS REALLY HAPPY AND
PROUD TO SEE OUR COMMITTEE
MEMBERS COME OUT AND SUPPORT
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON'S
ORDINANCE WORK IT WAS REALLY
MOVING TO SEE A SERIES OF BLACK
WOMEN LEADERS COME OUT AND SAY
THIS IS NOT ONLY NEEDED BUT
OVERDUE AND I WAS REALLY
HEARTENED TO SEE A UNANIMOUS
SUPPORT AND VOTE FOR THAT.
AND TONIGHT WE HAD CHATTED
BEFORE AND I SAID, YOU KNOW,
WOULD BE REMARKABLE IF WE HAD
BLACK FATHERS COME AND SPEAK TO
THEIR WORRIES ABOUT DRIVING FOR
THEIR CHILDREN IN THIS CITY.
>> AND I HEARD FROM
CONSTITUENTS EXPRESS THE SAME
STORIES ABOUT WORRYING EVERY
NIGHT REGARDLESS OF WHERE THEY
LIVE, WHAT WHAT THE EXPERIENCE
IS LIKE TO DRIVE BLACK.
>> SO I LOOK FORWARD TO THE
DISCUSSION AND I ALSO WANTED TO
THANK THE LIBRARY FOR THEIR
WORK WHEN THERE WAS SOME POWER
OUTAGES EARLIER I THINK IT WAS
LIKE A WEEK OR SO AGO AND
OPENING AND OPENING AND MAKING
SURE THAT FOLKS HAD ACCESS TO
POWER RECHARGE THEIR THEIR
MEDICAL DEVICES, THEIR PHONES.
THE LIBRARY IS EXTRAORDINARY.
WE ALSO HAVE THOUSANDS
OF FAMILIES COME DOWNTOWN FOR
THE COMIC ARTS FESTIVAL.
THAT'S AN ANNUAL ANNUAL EVENT
THAT ATTRACTS FOLKS NATIONALLY
.
WE HAVE THREE TO FIVE THOUSAND
FAMILIES THAT COME DOWNTOWN FOR
THESE EVENTS EVERY WEEKEND WHEN
THEY HOST AFFAIR.
SO I ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO GO TO
THE LIBRARY, FOR EXAMPLE,
OF HOW WE CAN SERVE CHILDREN
AND FAMILIES DOWNTOWN.
ALSO THEY HAVE AN ONGOING
AN
ONGOING RESOURCE FOR OUR BLACK
LEADERS BLACK LIVES MATTER
DISCUSSIONS SERIES.
IT'S RECORDED AND AVAILABLE
ONLINE.
SO SHOULD YOU HAVE QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE WORK THAT WE'RE DOING
HERE IN SUPPORT OF BLACK LIVES
OUTSIDE OF HANGING FLAG IN
FRONT OF CITY COUNCIL OR HAVING
MURALS IN OUR PARKS?
THESE DISCUSSIONS HAPPEN.
>> THEY'VE HAPPENED IN
COMMUNITY.
THEY'RE RECORDED AND THEY'RE
AVAILABLE.
SO THERE IS COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S
I JUST WANTED TO LET FOLKS KNOW
THAT WARD FIVE COUNCIL MEMBER
AND I WILL BE HAVING OUR
MONTHLY CONSTITUENT COFFEE HOUR
OR LISTENING HOUR ON SUNDAY,
JULY 16TH AT FOUR P.M. AT THE
END OF THE ART CENTER ON THE
SECOND FLOOR.
SO ALL ARE WELCOME TO COME IN
AND CHAT WITH US THEN.
AND I ALSO WANTED TO DRAW FOLKS
ATTENTION TO SOMETHING THAT IS
LISTED IN THE QUIRK'S REPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS E SIX, WHICH
IS THE EVICTION PREVENTION
FUND'S FINAL REPORT IN MARCH I
BELIEVE IT IS CITY COUNCIL HAD
APPROPRIATED THREE HUNDRED FIVE
THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR EVICTION
PREVENTION IN THIS REPORT
OUTLINES HOW THOSE FUNDS WERE
USED TO KEEP FOLKS HOUSED IN
OUR COMMUNITY AND HAS
INTERESTING DEMOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION AS WELL.
>> SO I ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO TAKE
A LOOK AT THAT.
WE ALSO APPROVED ADDITIONAL
FUNDING IN OUR MAY BUDGET AS
WELL OF WHICH WILL BE ON THE
AGENDA TONIGHT TO CONTINUE THIS
WORK BECAUSE WE KNOW TOO MANY
FOLKS ARE FACING HOUSING
INSECURITY RIGHT NOW FOR THEIR
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL.
>> THE I THANK YOU.
>> I ALSO WANT TO SHARE THAT I
AM EXCITED THAT WE ARE GOING TO
BE DISCUSSING AGAIN THE DRIVING
QUALITY ORDINANCE AND YOU KNOW,
AS AS WE IT'S LONG OVERDUE AND
I'M GLAD THERE'S SO MANY
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY HERE
TO VOICE THEIR EXPERIENCES.
SO I ALSO WANT TO THANK SENATOR
DUFFERIN AND THE REST OF THE
DELEGATION FOR HELPING TO
SECURE SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS IN
A VARIETY OF DIFFERENT EQUITY
FOCUSED PROJECTS FROM OUR SOLAR
LANDFILL TO YOU CRISIS RESPONSE
TO OUR AND OUR HOUSING
COMMISSION AS AS THE
BICENTENNIAL PARK WHICH WILL BE
THE NEW BICENTENNIAL PARK IS
SOUTHEAST AREA PARK.
WE'LL HAVE A SPLASH PAD, A
UNIVERSAL ACCESS CENTER BATH
AND ONE OF THE MOST DIVERSE
PARTS OF THE CITY.
SO I JUST WANT TO THANK YOU TOO
,SENATOR JEFF CORWIN AND THE
REST OF THE DELEGATION.
>> THANKS FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL.
I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENT THAT WAS PRESENTED
TO CITY COUNCIL JUNE TWENTY
TWENTY TWENTY THREE REGULAR
SESSION TO THE PUBLIC
COMMISSION FENGJUN THE MOTION
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILOR DENHA
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION FAVOR POSED IT IS
PROVED.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO RECOMMEND
THE FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR
YOUR CONSIDERATION TO THE
PUBLIC MARKET ADVISORY
COMMITTEE.
JAMES TO THE PARKS ADVISORY
COMMISSION VINCENT CARTERTON
AND ALEXA BUSH WE NOW HAVE
BEFORE US THE UNSENT AGENDA
OF MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CONSENT TO MOVE BY COUNCIL
BRACKMAN SECOND A COUNCIL
MEMBER SONG DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF THE CONCEPT AGENDA COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS YEAH CAN I POST A
SIX AND C SEVEN
FOR THE
CUSTOMER QUENELLE TO SEE
NINETEEN PLEASE COUNT COUNCILOR
HARRISON I'D LIKE TO SEE FIVE
PLEASE
DENHA I DON'T RECALL
ANYTHING I JUST WANT TO NOTE
EIGHT WHICH IS A PROFESSIONAL
SERVICES AGREEMENT WITH
COMMUNITY ACTION NETWORK FOR
OUR WORK IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND THE DECARBONIZATION PROJECT
AND JUST WANTED TO THANK THE
ENTIRE COMMUNITY ACTION NETWORK
TEAM BUT SPECIFICALLY THE FOLKS
WORKING OUT OF THE BRYANT
CENTER AS A RESIDENT OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD I GET TO SEE THEIR
WORK EACH AND EVERY DAY.
THEY GENERALLY HAVE FOLKS LINED
UP AS ONE OF THE LARGEST FOOD
PANTRIES IN THE CITY AND THE
WORK THAT THEY'RE DOING IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IS REALLY
TRANSFORMATIVE.
AND SO I'M VERY EXCITED TO SEE
THIS MOVING FORWARD AND LOOK
FORWARD TO THE CONTINUED
PARTNERSHIP.
THANKS TO YOU.
>> I THINK SEE FIFTEEN FOR
DISCUSSION AND I WOULD JUST
LIKE TO TAKE THIS OPPORTUNITY
TO HIGHLIGHT THE SEVENTEEN WE
GOT TO WORK FROM THE US
TRANSPORTATION HIGHWAY
ADMINISTRATION FOR THREE POINT
EIGHT MILLION DOLLARS FROM THE
SAFE STREETS AND ROADS PROJECT
AND IT'S EXCITING BECAUSE IT'S
GOING TO FIND SPEED MUCH QUICK
BUILDS ANTICIPATION TO ADVANCE
OUR VISION ZERO TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY INITIATIVES THANKS FOR
THE CONCESSION COUNCILPERSONS.
I WON'T BE PULLING THIS BUT I
DO WANT TO NOTE THAT A14 ON THE
AIRPORT ROAD CONSTRUCTION
IMPROVEMENTS IS LONG IN COMING
.
WE'VE HAD THOSE DISCUSSIONS
SINCE TWENTY EIGHTEEN AND I I'M
REALLY LOOKING FORWARD TO
CONTINUE DISCUSSIONS WITH IN
OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND IATA AND
HOW COMPLETING THOSE SIDEWALKS
IS IN SUPPORT OF THE THREE
SURROUNDING SCHOOLS NOW
HOPEFULLY EVENTUALLY WHEN BUS
SERVICE DOES COME THAT WAY THEN
WE WOULD HAVE HANDICAPPED
ACCESSIBLE SERVICE THERE TOO.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
>> THE CONCERT AGENDA ALL
THROUGH THE AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF SIX SEVEN NINETEEN
FIVE AND 15 I OPPOSED THE
CONCEPT AGENDA IS APPROVED WITH
WITH THE EXCEPTIONS OF SIX
SEVEN NINETEEN FIVE AND 15 WITH
10 COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THAT
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO C E
C A 14 AND C A 17 C A SIX
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
WITH LIVES AND REQUESTING FOR
VARIOUS EFFORTS TO ADVANCE THE
CITY'S WORK ON THAT CIRCULAR
ECONOMY.
THE AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER QUENELLE
DISCUSSION PLEASE COUNCIL
MEMBER BRINGS THINKS THIS IS
ONE OF MANY EXAMPLES ON THE
AGENDA OF OUTSTANDING WORK THAT
THE OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
AND INNOVATION IS DOING TO
PROMOTE THE CIRCULAR CIRCULAR
ECONOMY AND THEY HAVE
CONTRACTED WITH THE ZERO WASTE
FOR THAT WORK AND ONE OF THE
PIECES AS I WAS READING THROUGH
THE SCOPE OF SERVICES FOR THAT
CONTRACT WAS JUST I RECOGNIZE
THERE WASN'T ANYTHING IN THERE
ABOUT EVALUATION.
>> I TALKED TO DR. BUILT AROUND
THIS.
IT IS IT IS HAPPENING THIS IS
SOMETHING A PIECE OF IT THAT I
TAKE SERIOUSLY.
BUT I DO THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
ESPECIALLY WITH OUR NEW MILLION
DOLLARS JUST TO BE REALLY
EXPLICIT ABOUT WHAT IT IS WE'RE
DOING AND WHAT WE EXPECT OUT
OF THE PROJECTS THAT WE'RE
UNDERTAKING.
>> SO I HAVE A RESULT THAT I'D
LIKE TO INTRODUCE IT SHOULD BE
BEING SHARED AROUND I THINK IT
READS RESOLVED THIS CONTRACT BE
MODIFIED TO ADD A RESULT A TASK
TO AT LEAST ANNUALLY TRACK AND
REPORT ON THE IMPACT AND
EFFICACY OF THE SCOPE
OF SERVICES INCLUDING DETAILS
ON A NUMBER OF STAKEHOLDERS
ENGAGED, GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS REDUCED AND OTHER
METRICS RELEVANT GIVEN THE
SCOPE OF SERVICES, IS THERE
THEIR SECOND SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA?
>> LET'S BE CLEAR WITH ALISI IS
THE AMENDMENT THAT IS THE
AMENDED FORMALLY IT'S FINALLY
OK.
>> THAT'S ALL FOR THE
DISCUSSION SIX IN FAVOR POST C
SIX IS APPROVED K SEVEN
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
WITH DEDGE MICHIGAN FOR VARIOUS
EFFORTS TO ENGAGE, EDUCATE AND
WORK TO ADVANCE SUSTAINABLE
PLANT FORWARD GUIDANCE.
THE AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF SEVEN
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THIS IS A REPEAT OF BASICALLY
WHAT HAPPENED AND SO AGAIN THIS
IS WORK TO ENCOURAGE THE MORE
PLANT BASED DIET IN OUR
COMMUNITY BOTH WITHIN FROM THE
PUBLIC AND ALSO FROM AMONG OUR
RESTAURANTS AND OUTREACH WOULD
BE DONE BY VEG MICHIGAN AGAIN I
THINK IT'S JUST IMPORTANT THAT
WE ARE BEING EXPLICIT ABOUT THE
EVALUATION THAT THAT WE'RE
DOING IS WE'RE AS WE'RE ROLLING
OUT OUR MILLICH.
SO THIS IS THE SAME RESOLVE
CLAUSE THAT I READ IN THE LAST
ONE.
>> SO I DON'T THINK I
NECESSARILY NEED TO READ IT
AGAIN.
I LOOK I IF I THOUGHT OK WAS
THIS CONTRACT WE MODIFIED TO
ADD A TASK TO AT LEAST ANNUALLY
TRACK REPORT ON THE IMPACT AND
EFFICACY OF THE SCOPE
OF SERVICES INCLUDING DETAILS
ON THE NUMBER OF STAKEHOLDERS
ENGAGED GREENHOUSE GASES
EMISSIONS REDUCED AND OTHER
METRICS RELEVANT.
>> GIVEN THE SCOPE OF SERVICES
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCIL MCCONNELL THE MARTIN
FAMILY FINALLY CONCLUDED THAT
IT IS COUNTERMAN YOU STOLE THE
FLOOR.
GREAT THANKS.
IN BOTH OF THESE CASES ALLOWS
US TO MAKE SURE THAT WHEN WHEN
WE'RE CONSIDERING THESE
CONTRACTS IN FUTURE YEARS WE
HAVE SOME DATA TO BE ABLE TO TO
BE LOOKING AT.
THE COMMUNITY HAS AND ALSO
OF COURSE THE OUR STAFF IN
TERMS OF DETERMINING WHETHER OR
NOT WE SHOULD BE MOVING FORWARD
WITH THESE PROJECTS IN WHICH
PARTS HAVE BEEN SUCCESSFUL, IN
WHICH PARTS WE MIGHT WANT TO
THINK DIFFERENTLY ABOUT.
>> SO THANKS SO MUCH FOR THE
DISCUSSION, C11 WELL FABER POST
SEVEN IS APPROVED NINETEEN
RESOLUTION TO DIRECT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO NEGOTIATE THE
TERMS OF FOR A SERVICES
AGREEMENT WITH RECYCLING EVER
FOR OPERATION OF THE PROPOSED
NEW ANN ARBOR REGIONAL DROP-OFF
STATION MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
KERNELL SECONDED BY COUNCILOR.
OUR DISCUSSION PLEASE HAVE SEEN
NINETEEN COUNCILOR QUINNELL FOR
THE CITY ATTORNEY HAS ADVISED
THAT I CAN JUST SAY FOR REASONS
PREVIOUSLY STATED REGARDING A
CONFLICT OF INTEREST I WOULD
LIKE TO BE RECUSED FROM THIS
.
IS THERE IS THERE A SECOND TO
THAT MOTION SECONDED BY
COUNCILOR BRIGGS DISCUSSION
OF THE RECUSAL OR FAVOR POSED
THE RECUSALS APPROVE.
>> YOU MAY STAND DOWN FOR THE
DISCUSSION SEE NINETEEN FAVOR
POST CITY NINETEEN IS APPROVED
AND WELCOME BACK CFA FIVE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX REBATE
FUND GRANT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE CITY VANGUARD OF THE
HOUSING COMMISSION AND THE END
OF OUR HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION MOVED BY COUNCILOR
HARRISON SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION CFO
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON THANK
YOU MAYOR.
AT THE CORE OF THE RESOLUTION
OF THIS RESOLUTION IS THE
BELIEF THAT ALL CITIZENS
REGARDLESS OF THEIR PAST
DESERVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
REBUILD THEIR LIVES AND FULLY
REINTEGRATE INTO SOCIETY.
THE MISSION IS TO BREAK THE
CYCLE OF RECIDIVISM, REDUCE
SOCIAL INEQUALITY AND ADDRESS
THE SYSTEMIC ISSUES THAT OFTEN
LEAD INDIVIDUALS INTO THE
CRIMINAL LEGAL SYSTEM IN THE
FIRST PLACE MANY BASED VOUCHER
HOLDERS HAVE HAD INTERACTIONS
WITH THE CRIMINAL LEGAL SYSTEM
.
THE TRAUMA ASSOCIATED WITH
THESE EXPERIENCES OFTEN
PRESENTS SIGNIFICANT OBSTACLES
TO SOCIAL REINTEGRATION,
EMPLOYMENT AND HOUSING
STABILITY BY PROVIDING TRAUMA,
INFORMED SUPPORT SERVICES WE
CAN ADDRESS THESE BARRIERS AND
HELP AFFECTED INDIVIDUALS BEGIN
THEIR JOURNEY TOWARDS
RECOVERY AND STABILITY.
THE MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX
REVENUE OFFERS A SUBSTANTIAL
RESOURCE THAT CAN DIRECTLY
BENEFIT THESE INDIVIDUALS.
AS MANY OF YOU KNOW, THE LEGAL
MARIJUANA INDUSTRY WAS BORN OUT
OF A RECOGNITION THAT CRIMINAL
PENALTIES FOR MARIJUANA USAGE
DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECTED
CERTAIN COMMUNITIES
CONTRIBUTING TO CYCLES
OF POVERTY, CRIME AND
DISENFRANCHISEMENT.
>> BUT IT'S BOTH FITTING AND
REDEMPTIVE THAT THE FINANCIAL
GAINS FROM THIS INDUSTRY ARE
USED TO HELP HEAL THE WOUNDS
INFLICTED BY THE VERY SYSTEM IT
REPRESENTS A DEPARTURE FROM
THIS IS NOT MERELY AN
INVESTMENT AND THOSE IMPACTED
BY THE CRIMINAL LEGAL SYSTEM
BUT AN INVESTMENT IN OUR
COMMUNITIES.
OUR SHARED VALUES AND OUR
COLLECTIVE FUTURE.
WE BELIEVE IN SECOND CHANCES
AND THE POTENTIAL FOR CHANGE
AND THE POWER OF SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES TO HEAL AND RESTORE.
>> THANK YOU FOR THEIR
DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MAKES AS LIAISON TO THE
HOUSING MISSION JUST TO EXPAND
ON WHAT COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
MENTIONED THERE IS IT'S GREAT
TO SEE THIS CONTRACT IN FRONT
US.
>> THIS WAS A BIG PART OF WHAT
WE HAD APPROVED DURING THE
BUDGET IN TERMS OF OUR BUDGET
AMENDMENTS.
SO COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
SPOKE TO THE FOUR HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR TRAUMA
INFORMED CASE MANAGEMENT
SERVICES FOR TENBY THAT'S
HOUSEHOLDS.
THERE'S ALSO AN ADDITIONAL TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS FOR LOW INCOME YOUTH
SERVICES THE TWO HUNDRED AND
ANOTHER TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR EVICTION
PREVENTION WHICH I MENTIONED IN
MY EARLIER COMMENTS THREE
HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS FOR BUILDING UP
COMMUNITY SPACE AND PURCHASING
FURNISHINGS FOR THE ONE TWO ONE
TWENTY ONE IS CATHERINE PROJECT
AND ANOTHER HUNDRED ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR
COLLABORATION WITH THE
COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP COUNCIL ON
THE PLANNING ORGANIZATION
DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN RELATED
TO ACTIVATE AND PROGRAMING THE
NON RESIDENTIAL SPACE ON THE
FIRST FLOOR OF THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT LOCATED AT
TWENTY ONE YEARS CATHERINE THAT
THAT WILL BE COMING THE CENTER
WOULD FOCUSED ON PLANNING AND
ACTIVITIES ON THE HISTORIC
BLACK NEIGHBORHOOD AND BUSINESS
DISTRICT WHERE THIS DEVELOPMENT
IS LOCATED SO EXCITED TO
SUPPORT THE FOR DISCUSSION
COUNCIL ROSOL I THINK WHEN WE
WORKED ON THIS IN DEDICATING
THE FUNDS IN THIS WAY IT LED TO
A LARGER DISCUSSION ABOUT FOUR
HUNDRED 400000 CAN ONLY DO SO
MUCH IN OUR COMMUNITY CAN ONLY
GO SO FAR GIVEN THE POPULATION
THAT WE'RE SPEAKING OF THE
INCREASING COSTS NOT ONLY TO
FAMILIES IMPACTED BY THE
CRIMINAL LEGAL SYSTEM BUT THE
WIDER COMMUNITY AND IT'S A LOSS
IT'S A LOSS TO OUR CITY WHEN WE
DON'T ADDRESS THE IMMEDIATE
NEEDS AND FUTURE NEEDS.
SO AS AS YOU KNOW, AS MUCH AS
WE CONGRATULATE OURSELVES FOR
BEING ABLE TO DEDICATE THIS
MONEY, IT'S NOT ENOUGH IT'S NOT
ENOUGH IN OUR ROLE IN SOCIAL
SERVICES EVEN THOUGH YOU KNOW
THAT'S REALLY MANAGED BY THE
COUNTY LEVEL IS STILL THE CASE
STILL SIGNIFICANT.
SO I'M GLAD THAT WE'RE BEING
ABLE TO START THIS DISCUSSION
AND HOPEFULLY WE CAN EXPAND IT
AS WE CONTINUE TO LOOK AT
FUTURE BUDGET BUDGETS WHEN IT
COMES TO OUR ROLE, OUR ROLE IN
POLICING OUR ROLE AND OUR
CRISIS RESPONSE, OUR ROLE IN
PUBLIC SAFETY AND CONSIDERATION
RATHER SO THAT WE CAN LIMIT UM
AND HOPEFULLY DECREASE THE
IMPACTS OF THE CRIMINAL LEGAL
SYSTEM.
FURTHER DISCUSSION FAVRE POSED
IT IS APPROVED SEE A FIFTEEN
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A COST
SHARING AGREEMENT WITH THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE DOWNTOWN AREA
CIRCULATION STUDY IN THE AMOUNT
OF TWO HUNDRED AND NINE
THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY FOUR DOLLARS AND TO
APPROPRIATE NINETEEN THOUSAND
THREE HUNDRED AND THIRTY FOUR
DOLLARS FROM THE GENERAL FUND
UNOBLIGATED FUND BALANCE MOVE
BY COUNCILOR AND SECONDED BY
COUNCILOR CORNELL DISCUSSION
PLEASE HAVE FIFTEEN COUNCILMAN
ARAGN THANKS.
THIS IS REALLY HAPPY TO SEE
THIS AN AGENDA THIS WEEK I FEEL
LIKE DISCUSSION HAS BEEN
FLOATING AROUND ABOUT THIS
COMING ANOTHER RESOLUTION THAT
WE PASSED AND THIS IS GOING TO
RAISE EFFORTS TO BUILD UP
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION AND
INCLUDING BUILDING UP
CONNECTIONS THAT EXTENDING ALL
AGES AND ABILITIES BIKE NETWORK
IMPROVE THE SAFETY OF PEOPLE
RIDING, BIKING AND WALKING AS
WELL AS SUPPORTING THE LONG
RANGE PLANS OF OUR BUS SYSTEM
AND ALL THE DIMENSIONS OF THE
PROPOSAL THAT'S IN FRONT OF US
IS REALLY ROOTED OUR
COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION
PLAN THAT FOCUSES ON HOW WE CAN
MAKE STREET IMPROVEMENTS LIKE A
LITTLE STRESS AT WORK.
AS I MENTIONED, LOOK AT SHARED
STREET POSSIBILITIES AND
PEDESTRIAN MALLS AND WHAT IT
SIGNALS FOR THE SAFETY
OF PEOPLE WALKING IT IDENTIFIES
A COUPLE OF KEY AREAS THAT ARE
IN NEED OF RETHINKING IN ORDER
TO SUPPORT SAFE ACTIVE
TRANSPORTATION.
ONE IS RESTORING THAT STREET TO
A TWO WAY ROAD AND THEN
ASSESSING THE RECONFIGURATION A
REALLY COMPLEX INTERSECTION AT
BEEKS BROADWAY DETROIT DIVISION
AND CARRY JUST THE FACT THAT
AFTERNOON THAT MANY STREETS
THAT COME TOGETHER CAN TELL YOU
HOW SCARY IT CAN BE TO RIDE
THROUGH THAT SECTION OF TOWN.
SO BECAUSE I THINK OUR
TRANSPORTATION SO IMPORTANT I'M
PROPOSING AN AMENDMENT THAT HAS
THREE WHEREAS CLAUSES I SENT
EARLIER.
SO I THINK THAT THAT SHOULD
ARRIVE IN YOUR INBOXES.
THIS IS TO IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW
THE SECOND WHEREAS CLAUSE AND I
WILL GO AHEAD AND READ WITH ONE
OF THE TWO CRITICAL GOALS
OF THE MEETING TOGETHER TOWARD
SOLUTIONS FOR OUR PLAN IS TO
ELIMINATE FATALITIES AND
SERIOUS INJURIES RESULTING FROM
TRAFFIC CRASHES BY TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE WHICH IS ONE OF TWO
CRITICAL GOALS.
MOVING TOGETHER TOWARDS OUR
PLAN IS TO TRANSITION TO A
CARBON NEUTRAL TRANSPORTATION
SYSTEM BY 2030 AND IS BOTH
MOVING TOGETHER TOWARD VISION
ZERO PLAN TO ZERO
CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN CALL FOR
50 PERCENT REDUCTION IN VEHICLE
MILES TRAVELED WHICH WILL
REQUIRE THE CITY TO REDUCE OR
ELIMINATE THE FOCUS ON
CONGESTION MITIGATION AND
SOLUTIONS FOR PARKING AND
INSTEAD ASSESS PRIORITIES
OF ACCESS FOR SUSTAINABLE
TRANSPORTATION MODES IS OUR
SECOND SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
KOZULIN DISCUSSION OF THE
AMENDMENT AND FRIENDLY
AMENDMENTS FRIENDLY CONTRACT
AND YOU STILL HAVE THE FLOOR
EXCELLENT AND YOUR PROPOSAL AT
THE AMENDMENT BECAUSE I THINK
THE PROPOSAL ITSELF AS I SAID
IS REFLECTIVE OF THESE GOALS.
ULTIMATELY THIS IS GOING TO
RESULT IN A SET OF INFORMATION
AND RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WILL
BE MAKING DECISIONS ABOUT
PEOPLE.
I WANT US ALL TO REMEMBER THESE
GOALS AS WELL AS WORK AND TO
CONTINUOUSLY RECOMMIT TO THEM
AS WE TRANSPORTATION DECISIONS
AND WHAT THIS IS ABOUT IT'S
ABOUT CREATING A SAFE AND
COMFORTABLE ENVIRONMENT FOR
PEOPLE WALKING, BIKING AND
USING OTHER FORMS OF TRANSIT
AND SINGLE OCCUPANCY VEHICLE
TRIPS FOR THE DISCUSSION OF CFT
FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED BY
10 COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT TO
SATISFY THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT.
WE NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING.
THAT IS TO SAY THE ITEM ON THE
AGENDA TO WHICH THE PUBLIC
HEARING RELATES TO SPEAK TO A
PUBLIC HEARING YOU NEED NOT
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BUT
YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING SPEAKERS IN ALL
CASES BOTH HERE AND ONLINE THE
THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO TIME.
OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN 30
SECONDS ARE REMAINING AND WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED, WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE
AN AUDIENCE TO ADD CHAPTER ONE
TWENTY FOUR INITIATION
OF TRAFFIC STOPS TO TOTAL NINE
POLICE REGULATIONS OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY THAT HARBOR IS
THERE ANYONE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
YOU NEED NOT RAISE YOUR HAND
JUST COME UP TO THE PODIUM WHEN
IT IS FREE.
MY NAME IS BRIAN COLEMAN.
THIS AUDIENCE IS AT LEAST ONE
HUNDRED WILL DO SO I'M NOT
GOING TO BREAK MY ARM TRYING TO
PACK A CITY COUNCIL ON THE BACK
FOR ITS LONG, LONG OVERDUE.
THAT'S NOWHERE NEAR ENOUGH
OF COURSE I WILL BE PAST
OF COURSE IT SHOULD BE PAST BUT
IT'S NOT REPARATIONS.
IT'S NOT EXPANDING COLLEGE
PLACEMENT AND JOB PLACEMENT ON
A MASSIVE SCALE.
THESE ARE THINGS THE COMMUNITY
HAS TO HAVE.
IT'S NOT 10 PERCENT BLACK
ADMISSIONS AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
IT'S ONE THING THE COMMUNITY
FEELS CONFIDENT ENOUGH TO COME
AND GET THEM BE DEMANDING
REPARATIONS ON A BIG ENOUGH
SCALE TO MAKE UP FOR WHAT'S
BEEN STOLEN FROM THE COMMUNITY.
THERE'S ACTUALLY NINETY SEVEN
TRILLION DOLLARS ACCORDING TO A
BOOK BY JASON HECHO CALLED
DIVIDE.
I HOPE THE COMMUNITY WILL BUILD
ON THIS THAT'S BEING PASSED
TONIGHT.
I DEMAND A DRASTIC EXPANSION
OF NEUTRAL ZONES PROGRAM CALLED
FUTURE WHICH DOESN'T JUST
PREPARE STUDENTS FOR COLLEGE
STATUS IN THE COLLEGE PAYS FOR
THEIR COLLEGE AND FURTHERMORE
IT LETS THEM ACTUALLY INTO JOBS
NOT JUST JOB TRAINING AND
PRABANG FUTURE SHOULD BE
DRASTICALLY EXPANDED AND THAT'S
WHAT OUR CITY COUNCIL HAS A LOT
RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, THE
CITY COUNCIL CAN FORCE THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN TO KEEP
ITS PROMISE OF 10 PERCENT DROP
ADMISSIONS AND THE COMMUNITY
CAN DEMAND AND BY THE ROLLING
STONE WINDOW AND THAT WINDOW
THAT SAYS MY EXPENSES RACISM
CONFRONTING RACISM, OVERCOMING
RACISM THOSE EXPERIENCES CAN BE
TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT FOR COLLEGE
ADMISSIONS.
I CAN BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT FOR
CARTNEY SO MY WILL THE POWER
THE CITY COUNCIL FOR
REPARATIONS, MASSIVE
REPARATIONS.
I HAVE THE POWER TO PUSH THE
CITY COUNCIL FOR A MASSIVE
EXPANSION OF THE FUTURE CRIME
PROGRAM UNDER CITY SUPERVISION
TO A CHILD THROUGH COLLEGE OR
THROUGH COLLEGE AND INTO THE
JOB.
I HAVE THE POWER TO PUSH THE
CITY COUNCIL TO FINISH
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN TO KEEP
ITS PROMISE OF 10 PERCENT BLACK
ADMISSIONS.
KWAME, YOU HAVE THE POWER TO DO
THAT BUT THE CITY COUNCIL
TONIGHT HAS A LOT MORE WORK BUT
THEY THANK YOU
.
OK, CUT.
OH, I WANTED TO SHARE FROM A
PERSPECTIVE OF SOMEONE WHO HAS
DEALT WITH YOUR POLICE OFFICER
THE BLACK LIVES MATTER MORE AS
YOU KNOW WAS CREATED AND I
CALLED THE POLICE.
>> WHY?
BECAUSE IT WAS A CRIME RIGHT
FELONY ACTUALLY.
AND I HAD ONE OF MY CAUCASIAN
SISTERS THERE WITH ME AND I WAS
VISIBLY UPSET BECAUSE FOR ME
IT'S MORE THAN JUST YELLOW
PAINT ON THE GROUND.
IT'S MORE THAN JUST WORDS ON
THE EXPRESSIONS THAT ALLOWED
NEED TO BE REMINDED OF THE
VALUE IN BLACK LIVES.
ONE OFFICER NOTICEABLY VISIBLY
,VISIBLY UPSET WALKED RIGHT
PAST ME TO MY CAUCASIAN SISTER
AND SHE SAID TO HIM, I DIDN'T
CALL YOU.
WELL, NO, THAT'S NOT TRUE
BECAUSE SHE DID AFTER HER CALL
BUT SHE SAID THIS IS THE
INDIVIDUAL THAT THAT REACHED
OUT TO YOU FIRST AND HE CAME
BACK AND HAD THE LAST ATTITUDE
OF SOMEONE THAT WAS DEALING
WITH THE PUBLIC, SOMEONE THAT
IS UPSET.
RIGHT.
I WAS VERY DISTURBED AND THAT
WAS MORE THAN JUST BEING
DISCARDED NOT SAW YOUR POLICE
OFFICERS ARE HANDLING BLACK
FOLKS WHO HAVE BIAS SO I WANT
YOU TO UNDERSTAND THAT THIS IS
NOT A PROBLEM THAT'S OVER HERE.
THE PROBLEM OF BIAS AGAINST
SOME OF OUR OFFICERS AND TAKE A
STEP FURTHER TO SPEAK
SUPERVISOR SHOWED UP.
I TALKED TO MY CHIEF, CALLED ME
AND I HAVE A PROBLEM WITH MY WE
DO A LOT MORE SWAYABLE GO FOR
SOME TYPE OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE
PASSED US TONIGHT.
THERE'S ALWAYS MORE WORK TO DO
AND THIS IS NOT TO COME TO WHAT
YOU DID WAS BAD AND IT'S ALWAYS
GOT MORE INTO THE WORK AND
UNDERSTAND WE MUST NOT MEET AS
FAR AS I'M CONCERNED WE'RE
GOING TO BE DEALING WITH RIGHT
NOW BECAUSE IN A COUNTY ON A
CAMPUS PRETEXT PERHAPS THAT'S
WHAT IS HAPPENING AND OUR
OFFICERS ARE NOT BEING
REPRIMANDED FOR MAKING STOPS.
I AM ASKING THAT YOU MAKE
MAKING MOMENT TONIGHT AGAIN
THAT THESE OFFICERS MUST FOLLOW
AND THIS ISN'T A SUGGESTION
THIS IS JUST A LOT MORE MONEY
SO THAT WE CAN HANDLE HIS
OFFICERS ACCOUNTABLE IF THEY
CONTINUE TO THE PRETEXT STOPS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
OK, ANYBODY ELSE SEE YOU AFFECT
THE MONEY YOU STOLE NINETY FOUR
TRILLION IS A LOT OF MONEY.
OKAY YOU KNOW MY SISTER IT'S
IT'S RACISM.
IT IS IT REALLY RACISM.
RACISM IS UP AND DOWN IN THIS
COUNTRY.
AND I'M RENEE YOUR ORGANIZATION
CONTRABANDS NATION OF RACISM
AND ALL ANOTHER WE PAY THESE
COPS THE TYPE OF POLICE
VIOLENCE AGAINST PEOPLE
OF COLOR AND MANY PEOPLE KIND
OF SQUEEZE OUT THIS TOWN WHERE
SEGREGATION IN THIS STATE IS A
VERY SEGREGATED PLACE.
IT'S SHAMEFUL TO SAY IS GOING
TO SCRATCH THE SURFACE
OF PEOPLE OF COLOR IN THIS
COUNTRY REPARATIONS TO THE
OF CENTER START TALKING ABOUT
REPARATIONS AND YOU RIGHT
MATTERS AND THE MONEY ABOUT
DISCUSSION SHOULD BE BETWEEN
HOW YOU PEOPLE COUNTRY BASED ON
TRILLION DOLLARS IN DEBT IS
ABOUT
STOPPING THE RACISM.
IT'S ALL OVER YOUR SYSTEMS
EVERYWHERE AND I READ TODAY AND
I MAKE SURE THAT WE PAY
SOMEBODY WHO HAS DONE
EVERYTHING EVERYTHING TO
SUPPORT THE RACIST DEFENSE
FORCES AND WE THANK THEM AND I
I AM AGAINST HER.
I THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
REPARATIONS, REPARATION,
REPARATIONS AND IT'S NOT
ENOUGH.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE YOU'D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
JUST COME ON UP SO I'M A TOPIC
OF PRETEXTED.
I THINK I WANT TO JUST PUT A
FACE TO TO THE ISSUE HERE SO I
AM A LET ME LET ME BRING
ATTENTION TO MY SHIRT.
THIS IS A 2014 BLACK STUDENT
UNION SHIRT FROM HERE AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
THIS IS WHO THIS IS THE EAT
BOTH OF YOU AND ANN HARBOR TO A
CERTAIN EXTENT FOR WHO WE
REALLY ARE.
>> I CAN'T SEE IT'S A BLACK
POWER SHIRT WITH THE MUHAMMAD
ALI IN THE BACK.
THIS IS WHO WE REALLY ARE ON
THE TOPIC OF OF THESE PROTESTS
AND HOW THEY AFFECT POOR BLACK
PEOPLE LIKE MYSELF.
THEY CAN HAVE DEVASTATING
DEVASTATING CONSEQUENCES TO
PEOPLE'S LIVELIHOODS MOVING
HERE I'M SORRY PEOPLE'S
LIVELIHOODS MOVING FORWARD WITH
THEIR LIVES LONG AFTER THE
INTERACTIONS HAVE OCCURRED.
PRETEXT TYPES OFTEN LEAD TO
CONTRABAND CHARGES AND ALL
TYPES OF , YOU KNOW, RESISTING
ARREST AND FLEEING THE LOOTING
AND ALL TYPES OF OTHER ISSUES
THAT HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH
KEEPING THE PUBLIC SAFE
FUNDAMENTALLY AS THINGS STAND
NOW I HAVE I HAVE MY OWN ISSUES
WITH THE I DON'T WANT TO
INCRIMINATE MYSELF BUT MY ON
ISSUES WITH THE PROSECUTOR'S
OFFICE AS THINGS STAND RIGHT
NOW STEMMING FROM THIS VERY
ISSUE, I HAVE TO SAY THIS
PUBLICLY THAT IT HAS BEEN THE
MOSTLY DEMOCRATIC ELECTED
LEADERS IN THE PROSECUTOR'S
OFFICE AND IN THE SHERIFF'S
OFFICE THAT HAVE OFFERED THE
MOST RESISTANCE TO THIS KIND
OF NARRATIVE.
IF YOU ASK THEM THIS STUFF JUST
ISN'T HAPPENING RIGHT.
THEY SOLVED RACISM AND TONY
TONY UPON THE ELECTION OF AT
LEAST IN COMPANY AND THIS TYPE
OF NARRATIVE IS VERY
FRUSTRATING ESPECIALLY FROM
YOUNG BLACK
MEN WHO DON'T SEE
VERY MUCH REPRESENTATION IN
THESE KINDS OF SPACES
WHEN WE
DO BRING UP OUR MERIT IS
LEGITIMATE GRIEVANCES WERE
OFTEN MARGINALIZED AND
CASTIGATED AS CRAZY AS RUDE AS
EXAGGERATING OR INFLATING OR
OWN EXPERIENCES.
BUT THEN WE TEND TO HEAR THEM
AGAIN DURING THE ELECTION
ELECTION CYCLES FOR PEOPLE TO
GET ELECTED.
SO I DON'T HAVE A PREPARED
STATEMENT OF SORRY.
I JUST WANT TO SHARE MY MY
PERSONAL EXPERIENCES.
I'M NOT A CRAZY DANGEROUS
CRIMINAL AS THE PROSECUTOR'S
OFFICE WOULD LIKE TO.
I WOULD LIKE TO PORTRAY ME AS
BASICALLY I'M JUST A POOR BLACK
GUY TRYING TO LIVE BECAUSE THE
REALITY OF FOLKS AND OBVIOUSLY
WE SOMETIMES WE HAVE BROKEN
TAILLIGHTS OR WHAT MAY YOU
SHOULD WE SHOULD WE HAVE TO
FACE CONSTANT EXISTENZ
CHALLENGES TO OUR LIVES?
I DON'T THINK SO.
AND I HOPE I HOPE I PRAY TO GOD
THAT SOMETHING AS MR. SHAY SAID
SOMETHING WITH MORE ME AND MORE
ENFORCEMENT BECAUSE I AM A I'M
SORRY BUT I STAND BEFORE YOU
TODAY.
I'M MOVING A COUNTER EXAMPLE TO
THE SUPPORT OF THE PROGRESSIVE
POLICIES.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
>> OH HEY GETTING UP ON ALL ALL
RIGHT.
I WANT TO SHARE SOMETHING WITH
YOU FROM A DIFFERENT STANDPOINT
.
SLIGHTLY SIMILAR THOUGH.
SO EVERYBODY IN THE ROOM WITH
AN WHITE FOLKS PLAY CLOSE
ATTENTION.
THIS IS A CONVERSATION THAT I
HAD WITH SOMEBODY RECENTLY
SPEAKING FROM A POINT
OF PRIVILEGE AS WHITE FOLKS WE
HAVE THE ABILITY TO KIND
OF LOOK AT THESE THINGS AND DO
INCREMENTAL CHANGE BECAUSE
WE'RE KIND OF IN THE CATBIRD
SEAT AND CHANGE KIND OF SERVES
US IN SOME WAYS AND IT MAKES US
FEEL GOOD ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
DOING.
YOU HAVE TO UNDERSTAND WHAT'S
NOT EVEN BEING FULLY EXPRESSED
FROM THE CROWD BECAUSE SOME
PEOPLE DON'T WANT TO GET UP IN
HERE BECAUSE THEY'RE GOING TO
LAY INTO YOU BECAUSE THERE ARE
GENERATIONS OF PAIN BEHIND THIS
.
>> THE TIME FOR INCREMENTAL
CHANGES OF PAST.
>> AND SO WE HAVE THESE
OPPORTUNITIES WHEN WE HAVE OUR
FUNDS, WHEN WE HAVE XYZ MONEY,
WHEN WE HAVE THINGS LIKE THIS,
WE CANNOT DO BUSINESS AS USUAL.
WE CANNOT DO STATUS QUO.
WE CANNOT DO SOMETHING THAT IS
INCREMENTAL BECAUSE THESE
THINGS SWING BACK.
WHAT HAPPENS TO YOURS WHEN
MONEY GETS TIGHT AGAIN?
WHAT ARE THESE THINGS GOING TO
COME FROM?
WE'RE GOING TO BE RIGHT BACK IN
THE SAME SITUATION SITUATION SO
EVERYBODY'S TELLING YOU THEY'RE
HOLDING YOU ACCOUNTABLE WHAT
THEY'RE HOLDING YOU ACCOUNTABLE
IS THEY WANT YOU TO DO
SOMETHING BRAND.
THEY WANT YOU TO NOT BE AFRAID
TO FALL ON YOUR FRICKIN FACE.
THIS IS NOT A POLITICAL ISSUE.
THIS IS A MATTER OF PEOPLE'S
LIVES AND SMALL LIBERAL BUT
LIBERALISM THAT OFTEN TAKES
PLACE IN ANN HARBOR IS WORSE
THAN PEOPLE WHO ALL RIGHT.
>> TELL YOU THEY DON'T CARE
ABOUT YOUR ISSUES.
SO YOU'RE HEARING A LOT
OF UPSET.
YOU'RE HEARING A LOT OF ANGST.
I'M USING PRIVILEGE AT THIS
POINT TIME TO TELL YOU THE DAY
OF THE MIDDLE AGED WHITE MALE
WAS LONG AND IT WAS FRUITFUL.
>> THE REASON WHY I DIDN'T WANT
TO COME UP HERE RIGHT AWAY IS
BECAUSE IT ISN'T MY TIME TO
SPEAK.
>> OTHER PEOPLE'S VOICE NEED TO
BE HEARD AND THE RIGHT FOUR
HUNDRED THOUSAND IS A START.
IT IS A SMALL START IS A DROP
IN THE BUCKET.
I DON'T KNOW IF NINETY SEVEN
TRILLION IS THE NUMBER BUT I
KNOW FOUR HUNDRED THOUSAND
ISN'T RIGHT NINETY SEVEN SO I
ASK YOU TO CONSIDER THESE
THINGS BECAUSE PEOPLE DO PAY
ATTENTION TO WHAT HAPPENS IN AN
HOUR MAYBE MORE THAN THEY
SHOULD BUT THE FACT IS YOU CAN
SET PRECEDENT FOR OTHER PEOPLE.
YOU CAN SHOW PEOPLE WHAT IS
POSSIBLE.
YOU CAN BE GENUINE PROGRESSIVE
AND MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
>> THAT'S ALL I GOT TO SAY.
THANK YOU.
SO ANYONE ELSE PLEASE?
>> HI MY NAME IS SHANNON
ARMSTRONG.
I JUST WANT TO TALK A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THIS IS MY FIRST TIME
TALKING TO IT SO I WAS TALKING
A WHILE BACK TO A FRIEND WHO
WERE IN THE CAR AND WE GOT
PULLED OVER.
HE WAS I THINK I CAN'T DRIVE
AND IT WAS A SMALL THING AND HE
WAS LIKE OH, YOU'RE ABOUT TO
WITNESS POLICE VIOLENCE.
WE KNOW THIS UNNECESSARY STOPS
LEAD TO UNNECESSARY CONTACT
BETWEEN COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND
LAW ENFORCEMENT AND OFTEN TIMES
AND AND AN UNNECESSARY USE
OF FORCE.
I WANT MY FRIENDS TO BE ABLE TO
FEEL SAFE DRIVING.
I PERSONALLY NOTICED THAT I CAN
MAKE BETTER, SAFER DECISIONS
WHEN MY AMYGDALA IS A NEUTRAL
AND YOUNG DRIVERS LIKE MY
FRIENDS OF COLOR ARE AT
INCREASED RISK OF ACCIDENT AND
I WANT MY FRIENDS TO BE THE
BETTER ENERGY I'M DRIVING
SAFELY AND NOT WORRYING ABOUT
BEING PULLED OVER FOR SOMETHING
PETTY BY THE COPS.
I ALSO THE ONE THING I WANT TO
BRING UP I WANT TO SUPPORT WHAT
I MENTIONED ABOUT ADDING
PROVISIONS TO MAKE THIS
ORDINANCE MORE MEATY AS WELL AS
FUTURE FUNDING.
I AM A FUTURE CORPS PARTICIPANT
REPARATIONS AND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING THE MONEY.
THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
HOUSE RELATED PEOPLE?
>> HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS PAUL FLEMING.
I LIVE IN THE WARD FIVE IN THE
CITY AND WHILE I'M HERE IN MY
ROLE AS A COMMUNITY MEMBER I'M
ALSO A FACULTY MEMBER AT THE
SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND I
FOCUS MY RESEARCH AND TEACHING
AND APPROACHES TO PUBLIC PUBLIC
SAFETY.
I'M HERE IN SUPPORT OF THE
DRIVING AND QUALITY ORDINANCE
AND THE TESTIMONY THAT'S
ALREADY BEEN SHARED BY
RESIDENTS.
IT'S CRITICALLY IMPORTANT AND I
JUST WANT TO ADD ANOTHER
PERSPECTIVE AS WELL.
THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE IS IN
LINE WITH A POLICY STATEMENT BY
THE AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH
ASSOCIATION.
ASSOCIATION IS ONE HUNDRED AND
THE AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH
FIFTY YEAR OLD BODY THAT
ASSOCIATION IS ONE HUNDRED AND
REPRESENTS A BROAD BASE
FIFTY YEAR OLD BODY THAT
OF PUBLIC HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
REPRESENTS A BROAD BASE
.
OF PUBLIC HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
I AND MANY OF MY COLLEAGUES AT
.
THE SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH ARE
I AND MANY OF MY COLLEAGUES AT
MEMBERS OF THIS ASSOCIATION AND
THE SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH ARE
IN THEIR POLICY STATEMENT THE
MEMBERS OF THIS ASSOCIATION AND
ORGANIZATION URGES MUNICIPAL
IN THEIR POLICY STATEMENT THE
GOVERNMENTS TO QUOTE ADVANCE
ORGANIZATION URGES MUNICIPAL
EQUITY AND JUSTICE BY
GOVERNMENTS TO QUOTE ADVANCE
DECRIMINALIZE AND ELIMINATING
EQUITY AND JUSTICE BY
OFFICER ENFORCEMENT
DECRIMINALIZE AND ELIMINATING
OF REGULATIONS SUCH AS MINOR
OFFICER ENFORCEMENT
TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS INCLUDING
OF REGULATIONS SUCH AS MINOR
EXPIRED REGISTRATION AND BROKEN
TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS INCLUDING
TAILLIGHT AMONG MANY OTHER
EXPIRED REGISTRATION AND BROKEN
THINGS THAT THE POLICY
TAILLIGHT AMONG MANY OTHER
STATEMENT SAYS.
THINGS THAT THE POLICY
I INVITE YOU TO FIND A POLICY
STATEMENT SAYS.
STATEMENT HERE AT THIS QR
I INVITE YOU TO FIND A POLICY
CODE AS WELL AS OTHER CITY
STATEMENT HERE AT THIS QR
POLICIES THAT THE CITY CAN
CODE AS WELL AS OTHER CITY
ADOPT TO REALLY ADDRESS THIS
POLICIES THAT THE CITY CAN
ISSUE.
ADOPT TO REALLY ADDRESS THIS
THE AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH
ISSUE.
ASSOCIATION HAS MADE THIS
THE AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH
POLICY RECOMMENDATION BASED ON
ASSOCIATION HAS MADE THIS
YEARS AND YEARS OF RIGOROUS
POLICY RECOMMENDATION BASED ON
RESEARCH SHOWING THE HARMS
YEARS AND YEARS OF RIGOROUS
OF EVERYDAY POLICING INCLUDING
RESEARCH SHOWING THE HARMS
TRAFFIC STOPS THAT CAN THE
OF EVERYDAY POLICING INCLUDING
HARMS IT CAN HAVE ON RESIDENTS
TRAFFIC STOPS THAT CAN THE
ESPECIALLY MARGINALIZED
HARMS IT CAN HAVE ON RESIDENTS
RESIDENTS.
ESPECIALLY MARGINALIZED
THIS ORDINANCE WILL ALSO
RESIDENTS.
COMPLEMENT THE UNARMED RESPONSE
THIS ORDINANCE WILL ALSO
PROGRAM THAT THE CITY WILL SOON
COMPLEMENT THE UNARMED RESPONSE
BE FUNDING ULTIMATELY IN A SAFE
PROGRAM THAT THE CITY WILL SOON
,EQUITABLE COMMUNITY.
BE FUNDING ULTIMATELY IN A SAFE
THE RESEARCH SHOWS THAT
,EQUITABLE COMMUNITY.
INTERACTIONS BETWEEN RESIDENTS
THE RESEARCH SHOWS THAT
AND POLICE SHOULD BE MINIMIZED
INTERACTIONS BETWEEN RESIDENTS
AND ACCESS TO SUPPORTIVE
AND POLICE SHOULD BE MINIMIZED
SERVICES SHOULD BE EXPANDED.
AND ACCESS TO SUPPORTIVE
THE DRIVE QUALITY ORDINANCE
SERVICES SHOULD BE EXPANDED.
WILL HELP REDUCE THE POSSIBLE
THE DRIVE QUALITY ORDINANCE
PATHWAYS TO JAIL OR PRISON AND
WILL HELP REDUCE THE POSSIBLE
THE AND RESPONSE PROGRAM WILL
PATHWAYS TO JAIL OR PRISON AND
INCREASE SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
THE AND RESPONSE PROGRAM WILL
FOR THOSE IN NEED.
INCREASE SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
THE SYNERGY OF THESE TWO
FOR THOSE IN NEED.
INITIATIVES WILL LEAD TO NOT
THE SYNERGY OF THESE TWO
JUST BETTER PUBLIC SAFETY BUT A
INITIATIVES WILL LEAD TO NOT
COMMUNITY WHERE THERE ARE
JUST BETTER PUBLIC SAFETY BUT A
BETTER OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL
COMMUNITY WHERE THERE ARE
MEMBERS TO EXCUSE ME TO THRIVE
BETTER OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL
IN PUBLIC HEALTH.
MEMBERS TO EXCUSE ME TO THRIVE
WE TRIED TO PREVENT THINGS
IN PUBLIC HEALTH.
BEFORE THAT HAPPENING IN THIS
WE TRIED TO PREVENT THINGS
DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE WILL
BEFORE THAT HAPPENING IN THIS
HELP PREVENT DISCRIMINATION,
DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE WILL
PREVENT THE POTENTIAL FOR
HELP PREVENT DISCRIMINATION,
POLICE VIOLENCE AND ALSO
PREVENT THE POTENTIAL FOR
PREVENT PATHWAYS TO JAILS AND
POLICE VIOLENCE AND ALSO
PRISONS.
PREVENT PATHWAYS TO JAILS AND
I URGE YOU ALIGN OUR CITY WITH
PRISONS.
THIS RESEARCH ON THE ISSUE AND
I URGE YOU ALIGN OUR CITY WITH
PASS THE ORDINANCE AS A
THIS RESEARCH ON THE ISSUE AND
STARTING POINT TO ADDRESS THESE
PASS THE ORDINANCE AS A
ISSUES.
STARTING POINT TO ADDRESS THESE
THANKS SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME.
ISSUES.
>> THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS AIDEN KINGWELL.
I HAVE LIVED IN THE CITY BANABA
FOR ALMOST SIX YEARS NOW.
YOU CAN ALSO TAKE ONE LOOK AT
ME AND KNOW THAT I AM NOT
SOMEONE WHO IS PERSONALLY
AFFECTED BY THE MATTER DC TODAY
BUT I WANTED TO COME FORWARD IN
MY CAPACITY AS AN ENGINEER, AS
SOMEONE WHO HAS RECEIVED
TRAINING IN MATHEMATICS AND
PARTICULARLY PARTICULARLY
STATISTICS TO SPEAK ON THIS
ISSUE.
WE KNOW THAT RACISM AND IN
PARTICULAR PRETEXTUAL RACISM IN
TERMS OF BOTH TRAFFIC STOPS AND
STOPS.
WELL BLACK PEOPLE ARE SIMPLY
WALKING WELL OR SIMPLY SHOPPING
OR SIMPLY GOING ABOUT THEIR
DAILY LIVES ARE MATHEMATICALLY
DEMONSTRABLE.
THIS IS SOMETHING WHICH IS
PROVEN.
I THINK THAT AS MANY PEOPLE
HAVE SAID BEFORE ME, THIS IS AN
EXCELLENT FIRST STEP.
BUT WE ALSO NEED TO TAKE A
STATISTICAL AND SANE AND
RACIALLY EQUITABLE APPROACH TO
EXAMINING OTHER ISSUES THAT
INVOLVE ESCALATION FROM A MINOR
INFRACTION WHICH AS WE HAVE
DISCUSSED PREVIOUSLY MAY NOT
EVEN WARRANT CRIMINAL
PUNISHMENT WHATSOEVER AND
ESCALATE THAT INTO A MUCH
LARGER ISSUE.
AS I SAID, THESE ARE ISSUES
THAT ARE NOT ONLY AFFECTING
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY,
ESPECIALLY PEOPLE OF COLOR
WHILE THEY ARE DRIVING IT
AFFECTS THEM WHILE THEY ARE
GOING ABOUT THEIR DAILY
BUSINESS.
AND I THINK WE NEED TO EXAMINE
THIS ISSUE IN THE BROADER
CONTEXT OF THE PROTECTION
OF THE COMMUNITY THAT ARE
BROUGHT BY ENFORCING THESE
PRINCIPLES VERSUS THE DAMAGE TO
THE COMMUNITY INCLUDING
ESCALATION, THE USE OF FORCE
AND POTENTIALLY EVEN DEATH IN A
BROADER CONTEXT THAN JUST THAT
WHICH RELATES TO MOTOR
VEHICLES.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME
.
>> HEYOU NO ONE LISTENED
TO
BLACK WOMEN.
LISTEN TO OUR BROTHERS AND
SISTERS HAVING NEED OUR SUPPORT
FORWARD MOVEMENT.
COME ON PROGRESS THAT MOVES
QUICKLY AND SWIFTLY MUMBLED
GATEKEEPER'S HUMALOG HOLD ON TO
THEIR PENNEYS RESOURCES TO BE
REDISTRIBUTED IN A MANNER THAT
TAKES CARE OF OUR COMMUNITY AND
ALL OF OUR PEOPLE.
>> ALL OF THEM.
SO PASS THIS ORDINANCE AS HARD
FOR YOU BUT IT'S JUST A TINY
DROP JUST A TINY DROP SO I'LL
LEAVE YOU WITH THIS.
LISTEN TO BLACK WOMEN.
THANK YOU
.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
HOUSE WITH THAT TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS BONNIE PHILLIPS JR.
AND I JUST WANT TO COME UP AND
SAY THAT I'M VERY MUCH IN
SUPPORT OF THIS ORDINANCE.
ALSO SIT ON THE PARK AS A
COMMISSIONER BUT MORE
IMPORTANTLY I REPRESENT MY
SIXTEEN CHILDREN, MY SEVENTEEN
GRANDCHILDREN AND A WHOLE BUNCH
OF OTHER BLACK MEN AND BLACK
WOMEN WHO I SPEAK FOR WHO MIGHT
NOT BE HERE TODAY.
WE ARE CONSTANTLY TALKING RIGHT
NOW THE BIG THING IS THE
VERSITY EQUALITY AND INCLUSION
AND WE'RE ALSO LOOKING AND
WE'RE HEARING ABOUT HOW GREAT
ANN ARBOR IS AND WE CONSTANTLY
SEE THAT IN ALL THE POLLS AND
ALL THE THINGS IT'S THE BEST
PLACE TO LIVE, THE BEST PLACE
TO RAISE CHILDREN.
AND SO ANN ARBOR CAN STEP OUT
AND SAY THAT WE'RE NOT WE'RE
SETTING STANDARDS THAT WAY BUT
WE'RE SETTING STANDARDS WITH
EQUALITY FOR EVERYBODY.
THAT'S WHAT THIS ORDINANCE WILL
DO POLICE OFFICERS.
RIGHT, BECAUSE THE POLICE
OFFICERS ARE HERE TO PROTECT
AND SERVE.
THEY CAN WORK ON SOLVING WAR
CRIMES OTHER THINGS AND NOT
HAVE TO BE BOUND BY USING THESE
OTHER TACTICS TO FIGURE OUT IF
THERE IS A CRIME.
>> SO I SUPPORT THIS ORDINANCE
AND I'M HOPING THAT THE COUNCIL
THAT YOU HAVE WILL VOTE IN
SUPPORT OF IT AND THANK YOU FOR
YOUR TIME.
>> THANK YOU
.
YEAH, HEY HEY.
GOOD TONIGHT IS THIS IS KIND
OF HIGH IN HERE COUNCILMAN.
I THINK YOU OPEN A PANDORA'S
BOX.
HE HAS NO THIS IS JUST WE GOT
TO THIS IS STEP ONE OF OF
THINGS YOU COULD JUST BE LIKE
SUPER QUICK.
HE COULD JUST LIKE YOU COULD
JUST DO REPARATIONS.
YEAH.
BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT POLICE
DON'T STOP CRIME.
THEY REDUCE CRIME IN PRISON AND
DOESN'T DECREASE CRIME AT ALL.
WHAT WE NEED IS LIKE PUBLIC
HOUSING, EDUCATION AND
COMMUNITY SPACE AND LIKE MONEY
LIKE REPARATIONS.
YES.
THAT'S TO SAY WHEN I WAS WHEN I
WAS 15 I WAS VIOLENTLY ARRESTED
BY LAPD BECAUSE I HAD A
DRINKING BEER IN THE FOREST AND
WE HAD TO FIRE AND THE COPS
SHOWED UP AND THEN MY FRIEND
RAN AND THEN I GOT SOMETHING
POINTED AT ME.
IT WAS PROBABLY A TASER BUT I
THOUGHT IT WAS A GUN AND THEN I
WAS LIKE LAYING ON THE GROUND
FOR A LONG TIME AND LIKE MY
BODY WAS SHAKING AND YEAH, I
KIND OF DON'T LIKE COPS AFTER
THAT SO I CAN IMAGINE WOULD BE
LIKE IN THAT SITUATION OR IN
GENERAL IF I WERE BLACK
HYDROPONIC SET.
SO YEAH LET'S LET'S LET'S TAKE
THIS ENERGY AND LET'S KEEP
GOING WITH IT.
LET'S BUILD SOME HOUSING.
LET'S PUT SOME PUBLIC HOUSING
STOCK IN TRADE PUBLIC HOUSING.
YEAH.
AND LET'S INJECT SOME MONEY
INTO THE BLACK COMMUNITY AND
ALSO FREE PALESTINE.
YEAH.
TO
HELLO EVERYBODY.
>> I'M ANDRE WATSON.
I'M REALLY PROUD OF THE CITY
FOR YOU KNOW, APPROACHING FOR
APPROACHING A CREATIVE SOLUTION
AND I APPLAUD YOU AND YOUR
COLLEAGUES FOR THE SUPPORT AS A
RESIDENT OF BANABA WE DO HAVE A
LONG WAYS TO GO.
THERE'S A LOT OF OPPORTUNITY
AND I DO HOPE THIS BECOMES A
CATALYST FOR THAT CHANGE.
AND AS FAR AS THE OFFICERS MY
EXPERIENCE HERE WITH OFFICER
HAS BEEN REALLY GOOD TO BE
CANDID WITH YOU BUT I'M NOT
NAIVE.
YOU KNOW, I'VE LIVED A WHILE AS
AN AFRICAN-AMERICAN IN AMERICA
AND AND I'VE HAD THE HARASSMENT
I'VE HAD THE STOPS AND ABOUT
THE TRAUMA THAT THAT SITS IN TO
MANY OF US WHEN WE HAVE THE
STOPS.
AND I DO THINK THAT THIS THIS
ORDINANCE WILL GIVE THE SPARK
HOPEFULLY THAT THE NATION WILL
GALVANIZE WITH AND THAT THE
OFFICERS WILL LEARN HOW TO
RECONCILE IN WHATEVER CAPACITY
THEY NEED TO THOSE WHO ARE, YOU
KNOW, SHOULDN'T BE DOING THE
JOB, LET THEM GET FIRED, LET
THEM BE REMOVED.
THOSE WHO ARE WISE ENOUGH TO
ADAPT ENJOY YOUR JOBS, HAVE
LESS STRESS AND TREAT PEOPLE
THE WAY YOU WOULD WANT TO BE
TREATED.
I REALLY PRAY THAT THAT
SENTIMENT BECOMES THE
PREVAILING ENERGY FROM THIS
SPARK.
I DO THINK CANNABIS HAS A LOT
MORE TO GIVE AS IT RELATES TO
THE CREDIBILITY, THE NOTORIETY
AND THE PLATFORM.
I THINK WE'VE BEEN SITTING
RELAXED IN OUR PLATFORM FOR TOO
LONG AS A PROGRESSIVE CITY I
PERSONALLY HAVE AN EXPERIENCE
WITH CITY OF ANN ARBOR THAT WAS
TERRIBLE.
I WAS NAIVE TO THAT EXPERIENCE
SO I DO AS OTHERS HAVE
SUGGESTED.
I BELIEVE THAT WE HAVE OTHER
OPPORTUNITIES TO MAKE THIS A
BETTER CITY AND I DON'T KNOW
I'M NOT A PROFESSIONAL AT THIS
LEVEL OF ADVICE BUT DISCOMFORT
IS A SOLUTION SO REALLY, REALLY
ATTEMPT TO STAY IN THE ROOM
WHEN IT'S UNCOMFORTABLE AND
HAVE A LITTLE FAITH IN THE AREA
AND I THINK WE'LL FIND MORE
OPPORTUNITIES AND REALLY BECOME
THE CITY THAT MOST OF THOSE ARE
HERE TO TO LIVE IN AND TO
ENJOY.
THANK YOU ALL.
THANK YOU
.
HI EVERYONE HERE I SERVED LAW
ENFORCEMENT FOR TEN YEARS.
SO SPEAKING OF THAT PERSPECTIVE
,I AGREE WITH A LOT
OF COMMENTS THAT MY COLLEAGUES
HAVE MADE.
THANK YOU CYNTHIA HORSEHEAD AND
REALLY CITY COUNCIL FOR THE
WORK THAT YOU'VE DONE ON THIS
TRAFFIC STOPS ARE DANGEROUS.
WE MADE A DECISION IN THIS
COUNTRY LONG AGO TO USE THE
POLICE FOR WHAT I WOULD ALMOST
EVERYTHING UNDER THE SUN WHEN
IT COMES TO SAFETY TRAFFIC
STOPS ON THE ROADWAY AS AN
OFFICER YOU CAN GET ALL KINDS
OF THINGS CAN HAPPEN AND THEN
YOU'RE CAUSING TRAUMA FOR THE
PEOPLE WHEN YOU PULL OVER YOUR
LEGS GETTING PULLED OVER.
I THINK THE MAJORITY OF PEOPLE
IN THIS ROOM WHEN THEY GET
PULLED OVER THEIR ANXIETY IS
GOING TO GO UP.
THEY'RE GOING TO FEEL
UNCOMFORTABLE AND THEN FOR
PEOPLE THAT IN THE BLACK AND
BROWN COMMUNITY THERE'S A
HEIGHTENED FEAR THAT YOU MIGHT
NOT LIVE ON THAT TRAFFIC STOP.
WHEN I WAS AN OFFICER IT WAS
VERY HARD FOR ME TO UNDERSTAND
THAT WHEN I FIRST STARTED I WAS
TALKING TO MY FRIENDS BECAUSE I
THOUGHT WELL I'M JUST GOING
OVER FOR SPEEDING.
I'M JUST GOING TO REMIND YOU
THAT YOUR HEADLIGHT AND IT TOOK
A LONG TIME IN HIS CAREER TO
REALLY UNDERSTAND FROM MY
FRIENDS THAT WE NEED TO BE
REALLY OF THE PRESENCE THAT WE
BRING TO PEOPLE WHEN WE WALK
INTO REALMS WHEN WE ARE SITTING
AT THE PARK AND THE PATROL CAR
WHEN WE PULL PEOPLE OVER WE CAN
CAUSE STRESS, ANXIETY AND THOSE
TRAFFIC STOPS THAT I'VE DONE
AND I'VE SEEN HOW SCARED PEOPLE
ARE ON THOSE STOPS.
AND SO WHEN THOSE SITUATIONS
WHERE WE CAN AVOID THOSE STOPS
WE SHOULD DO IT AND SHOUT OUT
TO PULL OVER PREVENTION.
THEY'VE BEEN DOING ALL WORK
WITH FIXING CARS SO PEOPLE
DON'T HAVE TO RISK BEING
STOPPED FOR THESE REALLY LOW
LEVEL OFFENSES.
BUT IF WE STARTED TRAFFIC STOP
POLICIES RIGHT NOW, I DON'T
THINK WE WOULD HAVE THE POLICE
STOPPING PEOPLE FOR THESE
EXTREMELY MINOR INFRACTIONS.
AND SO THIS ORDINANCE IS A STEP
IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION AND WE
REALLY HAVE TO DO MORE TO
RESTRUCTURE THE TRAFFIC
ENFORCEMENT BECAUSE WE KNOW
THAT TRAFFIC STOPS KILL PEOPLE
,THEY INJURE PEOPLE AND AT THE
END OF THE DAY SAFETY NEEDS TO
BE THE PRIMARY CONCERN NOT
USING THE POLICE IN A WAY THAT
THEY REALLY HAVE OTHER THINGS
THAT THEY COULD BE DOING THAT
WOULD BE A LOT MORE BENEFICIAL
THAN PULLING PEOPLE OVER FOR
THINGS LIKE A CRACK IN THE
WINDSHIELD OR LOUD EXHAUST OR A
PARTY RELATED
THINGS.
WE'RE DRIVING A CAR AND SO I
WANT TO THANK YOU ALL AGAIN.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THE PROCESS
AND ALL THE COLLABORATION.
THIS IS ABOUT A LOT OF PEOPLE
TOGETHER AND ALL THE TIME.
THANKS.
THANK YOU FOR HELLO.
MY NAME IS LAURYN HILL.
I WANT TO SHARE A STORY WITH
YOU REAL QUICK ONE IMAGINE THE
INDIVIDUAL WHO MADE SOME
MISTAKES IN HIS LIFE RIGHT AND
HE DID HIS TIME.
HE GETS OUT.
HE CHANGED HIS LIFE.
HE DID EVERYTHING HE'S SUPPOSED
TO DO WHILE INCARCERATED KARMA
GOES CAME UP WITH PLANS HE HAD
MINIMAL FAMILY SUPPORT ONE HIS
FAMILY MEMBERS DONATED A
CARTOON GUARDSMEN SITTING IN
THE IN A YARD FOR HOWEVER LONG
IT NEEDED A COUPLE OF THINGS
FIXED ON BUT HIS INDIVIDUAL
PRIDEFUL HE WANTED TO DO
SOMETHING BETTER THAN SELLING
DRUGS, ROBBING PEOPLE RIGHT.
>> BUT IT JUST SO HAPPENS THE
ONLY JOBS THAT WAS PROVIDED
LIVABLE WAGE WAS AN HOUR.
IT WAS IN ANN ARBOR SO WE TOOK
A CHANCE.
>> HE SAID WELL I'M A GO FILL
OUT MANY APPLICATIONS.
WE HE HAS HIS DRIVER'S LICENSE
.
THE CAR IS LEGALLY SUPPOSED TO
BE ON THE ROAD BUT HE DOESN'T
HAVE THE FUNDS TO FIX THE
AIRLINE HEADLIGHT LIKE FROM THE
KIDS THAT WAS PLANNED ON THE
BLOCK ONE DAY.
>> YOU KNOW, WE ALL DID THAT
ONCE BEFORE.
YOU DIDN'T GET YOUR WINDOWS
BUSTED OUT BEFORE RIGHT?
WELL, JUST IMAGINE KIDS BEING
KIDS IN THE HEADLIGHTS BUSTED A
GUY COMING HOME YOU WANT A JOB?
IT'S ALL YOU WANT.
YOU DON'T WANT TO GO BACK TO
PRISON.
THE THINGS THAT HE USED TO DO
YOU DON'T WANT TO GO BACK TO
THAT GOT HIM BACK IN PRISON.
THE THINGS THAT HE USED TO DO
SO HE TOOK A CHANCE.
THAT GOT HIM BACK IN PRISON.
YOU DROVE DOWN EVEN GOT OVER.
SO HE TOOK A CHANCE.
HE GOT THE TICKET CAME BACK.
YOU DROVE DOWN EVEN GOT OVER.
HE'S DEAD NOW.
HE GOT THE TICKET CAME BACK.
HE'S DEAD NOW YOU KNOW WHY?
HE'S DEAD NOW.
BECAUSE HE GOT THE EFFORT.
HE'S DEAD NOW YOU KNOW WHY?
I TRIED THIS IS MY CHANCE.
BECAUSE HE GOT THE EFFORT.
I TRY ALL BECAUSE OF A TRAFFIC
I TRIED THIS IS MY CHANCE.
STOP.
I TRY ALL BECAUSE OF A TRAFFIC
SO AGAIN, THIS ORDINANCE IS
STOP.
GOOD AND I THANK YOU.
SO AGAIN, THIS ORDINANCE IS
I THANK YOU ALL.
GOOD AND I THANK YOU.
BUT WHAT GOOD IS IT GOING TO BE
I THANK YOU ALL.
IF ONE OF Y'ALL DON'T HAVE THE
BUT WHAT GOOD IS IT GOING TO BE
COURAGE TO MAKE THAT AMENDMENT
IF ONE OF Y'ALL DON'T HAVE THE
TO MAKE IT REAL?
COURAGE TO MAKE THAT AMENDMENT
THE FIRST IS OFFICERS TO
TO MAKE IT REAL?
ACTUALLY OBEY BY A LEADER WITH
THE FIRST IS OFFICERS TO
THAT THANK
ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
.
>> I JUST WANT TO SPEAK BRIEFLY
FOR THOSE OF YOU DON'T KNOW.
MY NAME IS DR. KEVIN KARPIAK.
I'M A PROFESSOR AT EASTERN
UNIVERSITY AND AUTHOR OF A
REPORT THAT'S BEEN MENTIONED A
COUPLE OF TIMES TODAY AND
TRAFFIC STOP DISPARITIES IN OUR
OWN.
THERE'S BEEN A LOT SAID ABOUT I
DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT ANYTHING ELSE
TO SAY OR ADD BUT ONE THING I
WOULD LIKE TO ADD THAT I I'VE
REALLY ENJOYED THE CONVERSATION
HEARING THE STORIES TODAY
BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT PART OF THE
REPORT.
I THINK THEY'RE ACTUALLY
PROBABLY MORE IMPORTANT FOR
HELPING SHAPE THE DECISION HERE
TONIGHT.
BUT WHAT THE JURY DID FIND IT
WAS THAT THERE ARE DISPARITIES
HERE IN ANN ARBOR THAT IS
INCONTROVERTIBLE AND THAT THE
LARGEST DISPARITIES HAVE TO DO
WITH THE SPECIFICS THAT TYPES
OF STOPS WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
TONIGHT WHICH ARE EQUIVALENT
VIOLATIONS NOW WE'VE COME TO
THAT REALIZATION SOME PEOPLE
ALREADY KNEW THAT HERE IN THIS
ROOM.
SOME PEOPLE DIDN'T.
THIS IS ONE WAY TO SHOW IT.
BUT I'D ALSO LIKE TO POINT OUT
THAT THESE KINDS OF EFFORTS ARE
GOING TO APPLAUD THE THOUGHT
AND TIME AND CAREFULNESS AND
CARE THAT WENT INTO THINKING
ABOUT WHAT WE CAN DO ABOUT
THESE PROBLEMS.
WE IDENTIFY AND ESPECIALLY WHAT
I ENJOY OR AS A CITIZEN AS A
RESIDENT OF CANADA AS WELL AS A
AS A RESEARCHER.
WHAT I REPORT ABOUT THE
ORDINANCE ON THE TABLE TONIGHT
IS THAT IT REALLY SHIFTS THE
ONUS AND TAKING RESPONSIBILITY
FOR OUR SAFETY TO THIS FROM
RIGHT THAT THERE ARE OTHER
KINDS OF RESPONSES COULD HAVE
OCCURRED AND WE STILL SHOULD
OCCUR.
MAYBE WE SHOULD THINK ABOUT
DIFFERENT KINDS OF TRAINING,
DIFFERENT KINDS OF RECRUITMENT,
DIFFERENT KINDS
OF TECHNOLOGIES.
I DON'T KNOW THOSE COULD MAYBE
BE DOWN THE LINE BUT WE ARE
RESPONSIBLE FOR OUR SAFETY IN
THIS ROOM AT THIS TABLE AND I
REALLY APPLAUD THE EFFORT TO
TAKE THE REINS IN THE HANDS
TONIGHT AND LOOK FORWARD TO
SEEING IT PASSED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE I
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE LINE TO LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
WHERE WE HAVE A FEW PEOPLE ON
LINE CALLER WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN SEVEN FOUR
EIGHT GO AHEAD.
>> OH MY NAME IS MARTIN NELSON
AND I'M THE DIRECTOR
OF STRATEGY FOR THE BEER
INSTITUTE.
>> GREENBERG SAID MASS
INCARCERATION PROTECTS
IMMIGRANTS RIGHTS AND FEEL SAFE
DRIVING COMMUNITY LEADING A
COHORT OF PENICILLIUM
ENCOUNTERED SOME COUNTRY WHO
ARE INTERESTED IN IMPROVING
TRAFFIC SAFETY AND REDUCING
RACIAL DISPARITIES IN TRAFFIC
ENFORCEMENT COUNCIL MEMBER IS
QUITE A LEARNING COMMUNITY THAT
THEY HAVE IN CITIES FROM
PHILADELPHIA AND MEMPHIS.
THEY VIRGINIA, OREGON HAVE
ENACTED POLICIES THAT WILL MOVE
POLICE FROM ENFORCEMENT
OF NATIONAL SAFETY RELATED BY
VARIOUS ACCOUNTS AT LEAST 12
JURISDICTIONS NATIONWIDE HAVE
SUCH A POLICY.
WHY DON'T WE CAN HAVE DONE SO
BY POLICE ORDER AND FOR
PROSECUTORIAL COMMON SENSE
OF RESEARCH THAT THESE POLICIES
PROVIDE FOR KEEPING A PERSON
RESEARCH SHOWS THAT POLICIES
LIKE THE DRIVING OF THE
ORDINANCE IMPROVE TRAFFIC BY
FOCUSING POLICE ON UNSAFE
DRIVING BEHAVIOR AND THEY
SAFETY RELATED STOPS CAN CAN
PROMOTE PUBLIC SAFETY AND
COMMUNITY TRUST AS THE
FREQUENCY OF THESE COMPOUNDS
STRONG IN GOVERNMENT
INSTITUTIONS SUCH POLICE
DEPARTMENTS AND PROSECUTORS
OFFICERS WHICH DEPEND ON THE
PUBLIC'S COOPERATION TO SOLVE
CRIMES.
THIRDLY, POLICIES FARAT MORE
DRIVERS OF PHYSICAL,
PSYCHOLOGICAL AND ECONOMIC HARM
CAUSED BY TRAFFIC STOPS AND FOR
POLICY TO REDUCE HARMFUL RACIAL
DISPARITIES.
AS WE HAVE HEARD TONIGHT ABOUT
A RECENT REPORT IN A RIVER THAT
SOUNDS SIGNIFICANT RACIAL
DISPARITIES ACROSS THE BOARD
BUT PARTICULARLY FOR
VIOLATIONS.
AND THE FINDINGS, HOWEVER, ARE
CONSISTENT WITH RESEARCH
NATIONWIDE FINDING GREATER
DISPARITIES IN NONPROFIT
RELATED STOCKS AND IN FACT
OF MAYBE THESE STOPS WORKED AT
THE PHILADELPHIA INSTITUTE.
ITS POLICY LEVEL STOP TRAFFIC
STOP INVOLVING BLACK MEN WENT
DOWN FIFTY FOUR.
NOW OPPONENTS OF THIS POLICY
TEND TO ARGUE THAT NECESSARY
FOR FIGHTING CRIME KEEPING THE
ROADS SAFE BOTH SUPPORTED BY
EVIDENCE REGARDING PUBLIC
SAFETY RARELY RESULT IN THE
RECOVERY OF GUNS AND OTHER
CONTRABAND.
NATIONAL STUDY FOUND THAT THE
POLICE RECOVERED GUNS AND FEWER
THAN ONE PERCENT OF THE PEOPLE
THEY STOPPED WHILE THE STUDY
FOUND THAT EIGHT LARGE
CALIFORNIA POLICE DEPARTMENTS
RECOVERED GUNS AND JUST FIVE
PERCENT OF ALL TRAFFIC.
>> AND REGARDING ROAD SAFETY
BANNING THE LEVEL OF TAXES THAT
PROHIBIT POLICE FROM MAKING
TRAFFIC STOPS DUE TO MORE
SERIOUS EQUIPMENT VIOLATIONS
LIKE SHOOTING HEADLIGHTS
ANYTHING COGNITIVELY RECKLESS
DRIVING A CONNECTICUT ANALYSIS
FOUND THAT THE EQUIPMENT
VIOLATED THE FOURTH LOW LEVEL
OF DO NOT CONTRIBUTE TO FIND
POLLING SHOWS THAT FORCES LIKE
THE DRIVER TO THE ORDER
HAMSTRUNG BIPARTISAN SUPPORT.
VOTERS CLEARLY UNDERSTAND THAT
THERE ARE BETTER WAYS TO HANDLE
THESE ISSUES, AS DO MEMBERS
OF THE NRA WHO ARE CONSIDERING
THIS INITIATIVE IN TIME.
I URGE YOU TO VOTE FOR.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
MICHEL HUGHES, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
I'M JUST HERE TO SAY I SUPPORT
THE DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE
AND PLEASE PASS IT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
ALL OVER THE PHONE
NUMBER AND AGAIN FOR ONE THREE
TO HAVE A COMMENT.
GO AHEAD.
>> SAY YES.
GOOD EVENING, MAYOR CITY
COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS SOMER BERMAN AND I
HAVE LIVED AND WORKED IN AND
AROUND ANN ARBOR FOR MOST
OF THE LAST THREE YEARS AND I
AM CALLING TO ENCOURAGE AND
VOTE YES ON THE DRIVE
OF EQUALITY FOR MEN.
>> I WILL BE BACK BECAUSE I'VE
HEARD FROM A LOT
FOLKS ALREADY
AND I WOULD LIKE TO THANK THEM
BASICALLY EVERYONE WE'VE SPOKEN
IN SUPPORT OF THIS ORDINANCE IN
ADDITION TO ALL OF THE
INSIGHTFUL TESTIMONY THAT WE'VE
HEARD HERE TONIGHT AND ALL
OF THE ELEMENTS THAT ARE LISTED
IN THE FINDINGS SECTION OF THE
PROPOSED ORDINANCE, I WOULD
LIKE TO EMPHASIZE THAT PEOPLE
WITH MENTAL ILLNESS ARE ALSO
DIFFERENT PERSON THAT WE
REPRESENTED IN THE CRIMINAL
LEGAL SYSTEM AND PEOPLE WITH
MENTAL ILLNESS EVEN MORE SO TO
ME AGAIN ABOUT ONE IN FOUR
PEOPLE WITH A SERIOUS MENTAL
ILLNESS HAS BEEN ARRESTED BY
THE POLICE AT SOME POINT IN
THEIR LIFETIME AND ABOUT TWO IN
FIVE ADULTS IN JAIL OR PRISON
HAVE A HISTORY OF MENTAL.
>> YOU'RE NOT THE RIGHT PLACE
FOR THESE FOLKS TO END UP IF WE
START PICKING UP PEOPLE FOR NON
CRIMINAL ACTIVITY AND STOP THEM
FROM ENTERING THE PRISON
PIPELINE, WE NOT ONLY WORK TO
REDUCE THE RACIAL INEQUITY IN
OUR COMMUNITY AS WE'VE HEARD
ALL THROUGHOUT THE EVENING, BUT
WE CAN ALSO TOWARDS GETTING
PEOPLE WITH MENTAL HEALTH
CONDITIONS, THE MEDICAL AND
SOCIAL SERVICES THEY NEED
RATHER THAN CONTINUING TO FILL
OUR JAIL.
I HOPE THAT YOU WILL SUPPORT
THIS ORDINANCE AND THANK YOU
FOR A TIME.
>> THANK YOU
.
COLOR THE PHONE NUMBER AND IN
ONE FOUR OR FIVE DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
GO AHEAD, POWELL.
>> CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES, YOU CAN.
ALL RIGHT.
HELLO MY ARE YOU THAT LADY?
BUT I'VE BEEN AT THAT AND I'M
GOING TO BE PART OF THAT.
>> I BELIEVE THAT WHEN IT COMES
TO THINGS LIKE THE
INCREMENTALLY WE CAN TAKE A BIG
STEP BABY.
YOU KNOW YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE
TO BE ABLE TO PAY YOU KNOW,
LIKE THE NEXT ELECTION IN THAT
WITH PEOPLE.
ALL RIGHT.
IF YOU HAVE TO PAY I THINK THAT
IN ORDER FOR BECOME COMPLACENT
WITH THE IDEA OF THE INCOME AND
EVERYONE IN, YOU KNOW, HAPPY
AND I COME HOME FROM OF BIGOTRY
AND PEOPLE VARIOUS AND
ALL TO
HELP PEOPLE PAY AND AT PUT IN
TO THAT, YOU KNOW, LIKE PEOPLE
TO MAKE AN IMMEDIATE IMPACT AND
EVERY DAY LIKE MAKE SURE THAT
THIS IS A THING THAT PEOPLE
KNOW IS GOING INTO AND NEEDS TO
BE IN YOU KNOW, PRIMARILY
TARGET PEOPLE AND THAT'S
PROBLEM.
>> BUT AND THE EFFECTS OF IT
WILL BE OVER INTO OTHER AND
EVERYONE WOULD THINK HAVE
INTERACTIONS WITH POLICE AND
HAD A OH I KNOW YOU'RE GOING TO
PASS IT BUT YOU HAVE TO YOU
HAVE TO BE AMENDED HAVE TO DO
SAY WHY DID YOU DO 30 SECONDS
?
THANK YOU.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
CALLERS ON THE LINE WITH THEIR
HANDS UP
SO YOU KNOW, IN FRONT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC NO TO AN INSTRUMENTAL
SECTION TO RUN AN AD SECTION
TWO THREE PART FIFTEEN TO
TWENTY SIX SOLID WASTE
MANAGEMENT ALL WASTE MANAGEMENT
ENTITLED TO UTILITIES AND
SERVICES OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
>> IS THERE ANYTHING YOU'D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
I THINK THAT THE SILENCE FROM
IS YOU NEED TO FIX THAT.
BUT I WANT TO JUST TELL YOU
REALLY QUICKLY BECAUSE I FORGOT
TO SAY THIS THAT WE WHAT YOU
ARE REPEATING HERE IS YEARS
OF ATROCITIES AGAINST THE BLACK
COMMUNITY WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT
THE HISTORY OF POLICING AND THE
HISTORY OF POLICING OVER SLAVE
CATCHERS AND ARE STILL OUT
TRYING TO CATCH SLAVES PROBLEM
WITH THAT MENTALITY.
SO WHAT WE'RE DOING HERE AND
I'M ASKING YOU TO PLEASE MAKE
THIS AN MAKE IS MORE THAN POMP
AND CIRCUMSTANCE MAKE MORE THAN
JUST PROFUNDITIES IF YOU DO NOT
MAKE IT THIS MONEY, THESE
OFFICERS ARE NOT GOING TO OBEY
THIS ORDINANCE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
HOUSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE I KNOW I KNOW
THAT TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING I DON'T HAVE ANY
CALLERS ON LINE FOR THIS
HEARING
.
>> SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED AWANA BUT
FIRST REGULAR SESSION MEETING
MINUTES OF JUNE TWENTY TWENTY
TWENTY THREE MOVE BY HOUSE
MEMBER WATSON SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WITH DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF THE MINUTES THE
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES MOVE BY CAST MEMBER.
OH I'VE ALREADY DONE THAT ALL
IN THE MINUTES PLEASE.
I PAUSED.
>> THE MINUTES ARE TWICE MOVED
AND APPROVED.
WANT AN AUDIENCE TO ADD SECTION
ONE TO FOUR INITIATED A TRAFFIC
STOP TO TITLE NINE POLICE
REGULATIONS OF THE CODE OF THE
STEPHEN HARPER MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE BE ONE COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THE DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE
HOLDS PROFOUND SIGNIFICANCE FOR
CURRENT AND FORMER CITY
RESIDENTS WORKERS, VISITORS.
BY PASSING THIS ORDINANCE WE
ARE COMMUNICATING TO PEOPLE
ACROSS THE NATION WHO ARE
FEARED OR SUFFER THE
CONSEQUENCES OF LOW LEVEL
SECONDARY TRAFFIC STOPS AND
OTHER WELCOMES.
>> YOU.
WE ARE SAYING THAT AS A CITY
COUNCIL WE UNDERSTAND THAT
THESE STEPS HAVE LONG INCITED
FEAR, TENSION AND SADLY HAVE
EVEN COST LIVES IN COMMUNITIES
AT THE FIRST READING
REGRETTABLY GRAPPLED WITH THE
WEIGHT OF AMERICAN POLICING,
HISTORY AND TRAUMA UNDERSCORING
THE NEED FOR TRANSFORMATIVE
CHANGE, WE HEARD HEARTBREAKING
NARRATIVE FROM ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS AND VISITORS ABOUT
THEIR ENCOUNTERS WITH POLICE
DURING THESE STOPS.
>> THESE WERE STARK REMINDERS
OF THE PRESSING NEED TO REFORM
HOW LAW ENFORCEMENT INTERACTS
WITH THOSE THEY PROTECT.
>> I'D LIKE TO EXTEND MY
APPRECIATION TO OUR POLICE
DEPARTMENT FOR UNDERSTANDING
THAT THIS IS NOT AN INDICTMENT
ON THEIR PROFESSION BUT A
STRIDE TOWARDS HEALING
HISTORICAL HARM AND FOSTERING
TRUST WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY.
>> I AND THE REST OF THE
COMMUNITY APPRECIATE YOUR
DILIGENCE AND COMMITMENT TO
KEEPING OUR CITY SAFE.
>> LET'S NOT OVERLOOK THIS
ORDINANCE ALSO SERVES AS A
PROTECTIVE MEASURE FOR OUR
OFFICERS.
>> OVER THE LAST DECADE TRAFFIC
FATALITIES HAVE BEEN ONE OF THE
LEADING CAUSES OF OFFICER DEATH
NATIONWIDE BY CURTAILING
UNNECESSARY TRAFFIC STOPS WE
CAN REDUCE THIS RISK.
THE DRIVING QUALITY ORDINANCE
IS ALL ABOUT SAFETY.
THIS ORDINANCE PLAYS AN
ESSENTIAL PART IN ACHIEVING OUR
CITY'S VISION ZERO GOALS IT
AIMS TO ENHANCE ROAD SAFETY FOR
EVERYONE IN ANN ARBOR DAY
DRIVERS, CYCLISTS, PEDESTRIANS
WE'VE SEEN COMMENDABLE PROGRESS
IN REDUCING CAR ACCIDENTS OVER
THE LAST FIVE YEARS YET OVER
TWENTY FIVE HUNDRED ACCIDENTS A
YEAR AND 17 FATAL AND
INCAPACITY RATING INJURY
CRASHES IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE.
THERE IS STILL MUCH WORK TO DO
BY ELIMINATING THESE LOW-LEVEL
STOPS WE CAN REDIRECT OUR
POLICE RESOURCES TO TACKLING
SERIOUS TRAFFIC OFFENSES,
MAKING OUR ROADS SAFER.
>> FURTHERMORE, IT SEEKS TO
CREATE A SAFER CLIMATE
ENVIRONMENT FOR OUR BLACK AND
BROWN DRIVERS WHO HAVE BEEN
TRAUMATIZED BY NATIONWIDE
POLICE VIOLENCE.
A RECENT REPORT SHOWS THAT
NONWHITE DRIVERS IN ARBOR ARE
STOPPED AND SEARCHED MORE
FREQUENTLY THAN WHITE DRIVERS.
>> NO BLACK PERSON IN AMERICA
CAN ESCAPE THE FEAR AND TRAUMA
OF TRAFFIC STOPS AS A BLACK
MOTHER I KNOW THIS TRAUMA ALL
TOO WELL EVERY BLACK PARENT HAS
TO HAVE THE TALK WITH THEIR
CHILDREN ABOUT HOW TO SURVIVE A
TRAFFIC STOP.
>> THE RESULTING LONG TERM
PHYSICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL HARM
IS WELL DOCUMENT AND ACADEMIC
RESEARCH AND I WOULD LIKE AT
THIS POINT TO MAKE AN AMENDMENT
THAT I'VE CIRCULATED WITH CLARK
BALDRY AND I BELIEVE WE HAVE
STAFF HERE TO IT AND THAT'S
RIGHT AND IT'S BEEN FORWARDED
AND INCLUDED IN THE PACKAGE SO
WE DON'T NEED TO READ IT.
BUT IS THERE A SECOND SECOND
ABOUT COUNCIL
WATSON AND SO YOU
HAVE THE FLOOR AND YOU'RE
CORRECT.
I BELIEVE THERE IS A STAFF
INTRODUCTION WITH RESPECT TO
THE AMENDMENT.
YES, THANK YOU.
>> GOOD EVENING MAYOR AND
COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS JAN GENACHOWSKI.
I'M A SENIOR ASSISTANT CITY
ATTORNEY.
I HAVE BEEN THE CITY ATTORNEY
ASSIGNED TO THE DRIVING AND
QUALITY ORDINANCE.
THERE IS AN AMENDMENT ON THE
FLOOR.
I KNOW YOU'VE HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO READ IT.
WE PROVIDED IN ADVANCE THE
QUESTION THAT'S BEEN PRESENTED
WITH RESPECT TO THAT IS PLEASE
EXPLAIN THE INTENT BEHIND THE
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE
DRIVING AND QUALITY ORDINANCE
LEGISLATIVE INTENT IS ALWAYS AN
IMPORTANT ISSUE PARTICULARLY TO
LAWYERS.
IT IS EXPONENTIALLY MORE
IMPORTANT WHEN THE PIECE
OF LEGISLATION THAT YOU'RE
WORKING ON IS A MATTER OF FIRST
IMPRESSION AND THAT IS THE CASE
HERE WE ARE LEADING THE WAY
WITH RESPECT TO MICHIGAN.
WE ARE THE FIRST COMMUNITY TO
PROPOSE SUCH LEGISLATION AND
THAT DOES MAKE IT IMPORTANT TO
BE CLEAR WITH RESPECT TO INTENT
.
SO I WANT TO BE SURE TO ANSWER
THAT QUESTION IN AS PUBLIC A
WAY AS I CAN.
AND SO I WOULD SAY THIS WITH
RESPECT THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
THAT YOU HAVE BEFORE YOU THE
INTENT IS JUST THIS IT IS TO
CLARIFY AND STRENGTHEN THE
LANGUAGE OF THE ORDINANCE SO
THAT THE PUBLIC IS CLEARLY
ADVISED OF THEIR RIGHTS AND LAW
ENFORCEMENT IS CLEARLY ADVISED
OF THEIR DUTIES.
>> BOTH OF THOSE THINGS ARE
ESSENTIAL IN DRAFTING THEIR
ESSENTIAL WITH RESPECT TO
LEGISLATIVE INTENT AND I WANTED
TO BE SURE THEY WERE CLEARLY
STATED IN A PUBLIC WAY.
I ALSO WANT TO CLEARLY STATE
THAT THEY DO NOT CHANGE THE
SUBSTANCE OF THE ORDINANCE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
KATHERINE HARRIS, YOU'RE STILL
ON THE FLOOR NOW WITH RESPECT
TO THE THE AMENDMENT.
>> YES.
SO THIS ORDINANCE SERVES AS A
DECLARATION THAT NO INDIVIDUAL
SHOULD FEAR UNNECESSARY
SECONDARY TRAFFIC STOPS.
WE UNDERSTAND THAT THIS IS A
CONCERN NOT JUST FOR OUR
RESIDENTS BUT FOR EVERYONE WHO
WORKS, VISITS OR TRAVELS
THROUGH OUR CITY.
OUR CITY HAS ALWAYS BEEN A
PLACE THAT RESPECTS AND VALUES
DIVERSITY AND OUR ORDINANCE
REFLECTS THAT COMMITMENT.
THIS ORDINANCE SIGNIFIES A BIG
STEP FORWARD IN OUR QUEST FOR
FAIRNESS AND JUSTICE IN OUR
CITY.
>> IT DEMONSTRATES OUR
COMMITMENT TO ENSURING THAT ALL
PEOPLE ARE TREATED EQUALLY BY
OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS
IRRESPECTIVE THEIR BACKGROUND
OR CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> I KNOW THAT SOME OF YOU HAVE
EXPRESSED CONCERN OVER THE PART
OF THE ORDINANCE THAT PROHIBITS
OFFICERS FROM INITIATING
TRAFFIC STOP FOR LOUD EXHAUST
OR BE SURE TO ALLEVIATE
ALLEVIATE YOUR CONCERNS WITH
RESPECT TO LOUD EXHAUST STOPS.
THERE'S NO NONE OF US WANTS AN
ANTONOVA OR NOISE NEGATIVELY
AFFECTS CHILDREN PLAYING IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS IMPACTS OUR
ABILITY TO CONDUCT BUSINESS OR
LESSENS THE ENJOYMENT OF OUR
OUTDOOR SPACES.
>> PLEASE UNDERSTAND THAT THIS
ORDINANCE DOES NOT PROHIBIT
TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT IN ANY WAY.
CITATIONS CAN STILL BE ISSUED
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW.
>> CHANGES CAN STILL BE SOUGHT
AS PART OF A LARGER SAFETY
RELATED STOP OR IN CONJUNCTION
WITH THE INVESTIGATION OF A
TRAFFIC CRASH.
>> IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE ARE
IGNORING OR TOLERATING LOUD
EXHAUST BUT RATHER WE ARE
ENFORCING THIS VIOLATION IN A
NEW WAY THAT DOES NOT CAUSE
TRAUMA OR DISPROPORTIONATELY
IMPACTS ANY SPECIFIC
DEMOGRAPHIC.
>> WE ARE ENSURING THAT ANN
ARBOR IS NOT ONLY FREE FROM
LOUD EXHAUST BUT FAR MORE
IMPORTANTLY FREE FROM
DISCRIMINATION AND TRAUMA FROM
THE DISCUSSION THE AMENDMENT
CONCENTRATES ON THE AMENDMENT
TO THE SUPPORT.
IS IT FINALLY TO THE BODY AND
ITS FAMILY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON MOTION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON FOR ALL HER WORK ON
THIS I'D LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR AND I'D LIKE TO JUST
ADD A COUPLE PERSONAL NOTES.
IT'S HARD NOT TO SIT HERE AND
THINK ABOUT FAMILY, ESPECIALLY
WHEN I RECOGNIZE SO MANY PEOPLE
THAT WE'RE SITTING OUT HERE AND
SPOKE EARLIER TODAY MY MOM WAS
RAISED BACK IN DETROIT AND MY
DAD WAS RAISED BLACK IN MT.
VERNON, NEW YORK AND THEY BOTH
CHOSE TO MOVE TO ANN ARBOR
SHORTLY AFTER I WAS BORN
BECAUSE IT WOULD BE A BETTER
PLACE TO RAISE A BLACK SON,
GIVE THEM NO ILLUSIONS ABOUT
THE RISK FOR BLACK MEN GROWING
UP IN ANYWHERE IN AMERICA.
BUT THEY THOUGHT THAT BY
TEACHING ME THEY COULD HELP
ALLEVIATE SOME OF THE WORRIES
THAT WE'VE WE'VE ALL TALKED
ABOUT TODAY ABOUT POLICE STOPS
AND WHAT TO DO WHEN YOU'RE
STOPPED EVEN SO, A FEW YEARS
AGO WHEN I HEARD A POP AFTER
BACKING INTO A POLL THE PARKING
LOT MY FIRST THOUGHT WAS NOT
ABOUT CONFIRMING THE TYPE
OF DAMAGE THAT RATHER A SILENT
PRAYER THAT I HAD NOT CRACKED
MY TAILLIGHT BECAUSE I
IMMEDIATELY FEARED THE
POTENTIAL OF BEING STOPPED FOR
IT LATER THAT NIGHT.
LUCKILY I ONLY CRACKED THE
PLASTIC CASING AND NO WHITE
LIGHT ESCAPE FROM THE FIXTURE
WHICH ALLOWED YOU TO BE THE
SIGHT OF RELIEF.
THIS IS THE KIND OF MENTAL
WEIGHT THE SPECTER OF THESE
STOPS CAUSES IN BLACK AND BROWN
COMMUNITIES.
LET'S PASS THIS ORDINANCE
TONIGHT AND LIFT THE WORRIES
ABOUT THESE SECONDARY STOPS IN
THE MINDS OF MINORITIES AND IN
THE MINDS OF PEOPLE WHO SIMPLY
CAN'T AFFORD TO FIX THEIR CARS.
LET'S ALSO LIFT THE TASK
OF THESE STOPS FROM THE PAY
OF POLICE OFFICERS WHO HAVE
LARGER PUBLIC SAFETY ISSUES TO
DEAL WITH AS THE FIRST BLACK
MAN TO SIT AROUND THIS TABLE
SINCE LARRY HUNTER WHO
REPRESENTED WARD ONE COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON BOWLES UNTIL
1997, I THINK IT IS QUITE
PERTINENT THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
HUNTER HAD HIS OWN DIRECT
EXPERIENCE WITH THE SECONDARY
STOP.
HE WAS ARRESTED BY WASHINGTON
COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPUTIES AFTER
BEING A PASSENGER IN A VEHICLE
THAT WAS STOPPED FOR A
TAILLIGHT IN NINETEEN NINETY
ONE THE YEAR I WAS BORN.
HIS WARD ONE COLLEAGUE MARY ANN
MARIE COLEMAN, A WHITE WOMAN
WAS OUTRAGED SHE IS ABOUT
RELEASING EVERYONE REPORTS THAT
WHEN THEY HAVE A TAILLIGHT OUT
AND WAS STOPPED BY POLICE THEY
GET A WARNING.
I'M SPEECHLESS THAT THEY DID
ALL THEY DID WITH MR. JOHNSON,
MR. HUNTER, MR. HUNTER ENDED UP
WINNING HIS CASE AND HAVING HIS
CHARGES DROPPED.
BUT THE QUESTION BECOMES THE
COUNCIL MEMBER WHO KNEW HIS
RIGHTS AND KNEW HE HAD NOTHING
AND THEN NOTHING WRONG COULD
STILL BEING THROWN IN JAIL AS A
RESULT OF SECONDARY STOP
HELPING ENSURE THAT ANYONE WILL
GET A FAIR SHAKE.
THIRTY TWO YEARS LATER THIS
ORDINANCE CHANGE WILL COME TOO
LATE FOR MR. HUNTER BUT I'M
PROUD TO SUPPORT IT TONIGHT.
>> THANK YOU, MEYER
.
WOW.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON AND
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON.
THANK YOU AGAIN FOR BRINGING
THIS FORWARD.
I SAID IT LAST TIME.
I'LL SAY IT AGAIN AS SOON AS
YOU BROUGHT IT FORWARD.
I WAS I WAS RIGHT ON BOARD AND
I KNOW THE DISCUSSION AT THE
BEGINNING WAS RESOLUTION OR
ORDINANCE AND YOU YOU KNOW, MY
FEELING WAS GO AHEAD WITH THE
ORDINANCE BECAUSE THE ORDINANCE
DOES CARRY THE WEIGHT
OF ENFORCEMENT.
I'LL GET TO THAT IN A MINUTE.
I JUST WANT TO BEFORE BEFORE I
GET TO THAT JUST KIND OF GO
THROUGH AGAIN.
WE'VE TALKED A LOT ABOUT THE
STUDY THAT WAS DONE AND I JUST
WANT TO REITERATE, UH, BUT YOU
KNOW, THE ANALYSIS IDENTIFIED
SIGNIFICANT DISPARITIES ACROSS
EVERY SINGLE DIMENSION,
EXAMINED NONWHITE MOTORISTS
BEING STOPPED AND SEARCHED MORE
FREQUENTLY AND IT'S THE
SEARCHED PART THAT REALLY WAS A
GUT PUNCH FOR ME BECAUSE HOW
JUST ABSOLUTELY DEMORALIZING
AND TO TO BE SEARCHED FOR A
REASON BECAUSE YOU HAD A CRACK
TAILLIGHT AND AND SOMEBODY
FEELS LIKE THEY THEY HAVE A
FEELING ABOUT YOU.
SO I'M REALLY I'M REALLY HAPPY
THAT WE'RE DOING THIS TONIGHT.
I WANT TO GET TO THE
ENFORCEMENT QUESTION AND I'M
WONDERING IF WE HAVE SOMEBODY
ON STAFF WHO CAN ADDRESS THIS
BECAUSE WE ARE DOING THIS AS AN
ORDINANCE WHICH MEANS THAT
THERE ARE CONSEQUENCES IF OUR
POLICE OFFICERS DO NOT FOLLOW
THIS NEW RULE AND I'M NOT SURE
WHO WE DON'T HAVE OUR INTERIM
CHIEF HERE TONIGHT WHICH I'M
SURPRISED AT.
>> SO, UM, WHO CAN ANSWER THIS
QUESTION
?
THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
COULD BUT THAT WOULD BE
PRIVILEGED AND IF YOU WOULD
LIKE TO VOTE TO GO INTO A
CLOSED SESSION, I'D BE HAPPY TO
ADDRESS THAT BUT CAN'T IN OPEN
SESSION IS THE CHIEF AND
AVAILABLE ON ZOM IS OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AVAILABLE ON THE
YES
QUESTION IS WITH RESPECT TO
LAW ENFORCEMENT OF THE
ORDINANCE
, THE PROVISIONS
OF THE ORDINANCE THE NEXT ONE
IT'S ACTUALLY PASSED IT TAKES
EFFECT IS THE ORDINANCE SPEAKS
FOR ITSELF WHAT THE ACCOUNTABLE
QUALITY MEASURES WOULD HAVE TO
BE WRITTEN INTO GENERAL ORDERS
OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND
PROCEDURES AND IF THE ORDINANCE
IS VIOLATED THEN WHAT HAPPENS?
THAT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT'S
BEEN WORKED OUT IN ADVANCE BUT
THAT WOULD BE THE NEXT
PROCEDURAL STEP THAT WE WOULD
DO AT STAFF LEVEL ONCE THE
ORDINANCE IS ACTUALLY LAW.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
I THINK THAT THAT'S SOMETHING
YOU'RE TREATMENT AT THIS POINT.
OK, I WILL COME BACK AROUND TO
IT THAT YOU HAVE MORE TO SAY.
>> SO THE DISCUSSION OF THE
MAIN MOTION AS AMENDED ON
I
CAN'T THINK COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON ENOUGH FOR FOR LEADING
THIS EFFORT.
>> THIS IS WHEN WE SPOKE SHE
SHE SHOWED HOW THIS HAS BEEN
THIS IS DECADES IN THE MAKING
SO HAVING HER HERE HAVING HER
HERE AT THE TABLE MAKES SUCH A
DIFFERENCE IN SEEING THIS WORK
DONE.
>> AND I WAS REALLY HAPPY TO
HEAR FROM COMMITTEE MEMBERS
RESEARCHERS BECAUSE THIS WORK
IS ALSO BACKED BY RESEARCH
PUBLIC HEALTH DATA.
>> THE CITY IN THE COUNTY HAD
COMMITTED TO RACISM AS A PUBLIC
HEALTH CRISIS BACK IN TWENTY
TWENTY AND I THINK DURING THE
PANDEMIC WE KIND OF THOUGHT
THAT WE HAD TO LIKE HEALTH
DISPARITIES, ACCESS TO HEALTH
SERVICES, THE LIFE EXPECTANCY
DIFFERENCES ACROSS OUR ZIP
CODES RIGHT THERE IS A FOURTEEN
YEAR LIFE EXPECTANCY DIFFERENCE
FOR BLACK FOLKS IN ARBOR IPSE
PUBLIC HEALTH IS ALSO RELATED
TO PUBLIC SAFETY.
THE QUALITY OF LIFE IS RELATED
TO THESE ISSUES AND WHEN I
SPOKE TO DR. PAUL FLEMING A
COUPLE OF YEARS AGO, ONE
STATISTIC REALLY STOOD OUT FOR
ME AND THAT WAS THAT DEATH BY
POLICE IS THE SIXTH LEADING
CAUSE OF DEATH FOR BLACK MEN.
IT'S A FACT.
IT'S BACKED BY DATA AND FOR US
TO AS LOCAL OFFICIALS IN OUR
OWN LIMITED WAYS TO RESPOND TO
THAT.
I MEAN WHEN YOU HEAR THAT YOU
CAN'T FORGET THAT AND THAT WAS
THAT'S NOT ONLY A CALL TO
ACTION BUT ALSO A CALL FOR
CONVERSATIONS.
>> SO AND IN A NUMBER OF WAYS
WITH OUR COMMITTEE MEMBERS WE
SEE COMMUNITY LEADERS HERE
BONDING IT A NEIGHBORHOOD WE'VE
TALKED TO OTHER SOCIAL SERVICES
DIRECT SERVICE AGENCY DIRECTORS
BUT I ALSO TALK TO NEIGHBORS
AND ONE LOCAL FATHER HAD
EXPRESSED HOW AND I SHARED THIS
WITH CYNTHIA EARLIER THAT HIS
WORRIES ARE NOT JUST DAILY FOR
HIS YOUNG, FOR HIS SON, FOR HIS
TEENAGER BUT GIVEN THE VIOLENCE
IN THIS COUNTRY HE ACTUALLY HAD
TO SEND ABROAD FOR THE SUMMER,
HE FELT BETTER SENDING HIM OUT
OF THIS COUNTRY THAN STAYING
HERE AS A BLACK TOWNEE WE KNOW
YOU ANOTHER ANOTHER DENHA
REFERENCE THAT I HAD SHARED
WITH CYNTHIA WAS ALSO FROM A
REPORT ON RACIAL EQUALITY
FRAMEWORK FOR GUN VIOLENCE
PREVENTION.
THIS IS FROM JOHNS HOPKINS
SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND THE
D.C. JUSTICE EBB'S BLACK MEN
ARE STOPPED BY POLICE ARRESTED
DENIED THEY ARE CONVICTED AND
WRONGFULLY CONVICTED AND ISSUED
LONG SENTENCES FOR MUCH HIGHER
RATES THAN THEIR WHITE
COUNTERPARTS.
AS A RESULT, NEARLY HALF OF ALL
BLACK MEN WILL BE ARRESTED
BEFORE THE AGE OF TWENTY THREE
.
>> I THINK WE LIKE TO THINK ANN
ARBOR IS AN EXCEPTION TO EVERY
RULE BUT WE ARE WE'RE NOT AN
EXCEPTION AND WE ARE
RESPONSIBLE TO DO WHAT WE CAN
AND WHEN YOU HEAR THIS DATA AND
YOU HEAR THESE STORIES YOU
CAN'T IGNORE IT AND I'M LEAVE
TO VOTE IN FAVOR AND THANK YOU
CYNTHIA.
FURTHER DISCUSSION KAZMAIER.
THANK YOU.
SO AS WE PROCEED AND HOPEFULLY
PASS THIS TONIGHT, THIS ISN'T
THE END OF IT.
I THINK WE DEFINITELY HAVE SOME
NEXT STEPS HERE INCLUDING
FOLLOWING ON WHAT THAT POLICY
WILL BE THAT THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT HAMMERS OUT AND
MAKING SURE THAT ITS PUBLIC AND
MAKING SURE THAT OUR RESIDENTS
KNOW THE PROPER WAY YOU KNOW
THE WAY THAT THEY CAN FILE
COMPLAINT THROUGH A PARK AND OR
THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT.
HOWEVER THAT'S DECIDED.
SO I THINK THOSE ARE CRITICAL
STEPS IN TERMS OF CARRYING
WITHOUT MAKING SURE THAT IT
DOES WHAT WE WANT IT TO DO AND
THAT WE HAVE THAT
ACCOUNTABILITY AND THEN I HOPE
WE WILL REVIEW THE DATA AGAIN
AT THE EARLIEST POSSIBLE MOMENT
I WOULD LOOK TO OUR EXPERTS TO
SEE HOW LONG DO WE NEED SIX
MONTHS A YEAR TO SEE IF IT'S
WORKING AND TO SEE WHAT CHANGES
IF ANY WE MAY NEED TO MAKE.
BUT FOR TONIGHT I THINK WE'VE
GOT A REALLY, REALLY SOLID
ORDINANCE HERE AND I'M I'M SO
HAPPY TO SUPPORT IT.
COUNCIL OF DENHA.
THANK YOU, MR. TAYLOR.
THANK AGAIN COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON AND I THANK YOU AT THE
LAST MEETING.
BUT I CAN'T DRAW ENOUGH
APPRECIATION FOR THE WORK THAT
YOU'VE PUT INTO THIS AND TO ALL
OF THE COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO
CAME FORWARD AND SPOKE AND
CONTINUE TO SHARE THEIR STORIES
BOTH TONIGHT AND AT THE LAST
MEETING.
I ALSO WANTED TO DIRECTLY
ADDRESS YOU KNOW, WE DID NOT
HEAR ANY OF TONIGHT BUT I HAVE
CERTAINLY HEARD FROM SOME
RESIDENTS WHO EXPRESSED MAYBE
SOME FRUSTRATION WITH THE
INCLUSION OF LOUD EXHAUST IN
THIS ORDINANCE BECAUSE OF THE
THAT ANNOYANCE THAT IT CAUSES
AND AND I FEEL SO STRONGLY
ABOUT THAT.
I THINK WE WE HAVE TO ADDRESS
IT IN SOME WAY EVEN THOUGH WE
DIDN'T HEAR IT FROM SOMEONE AT
THE TABLE TONIGHT OR FROM
SOMEONE AT THE PODIUM TONIGHT,
THERE WE'VE HEARD WE HEARD AT
THE LAST MEETING ABOUT AN
INDIVIDUAL WHO SIMPLY COULDN'T
AFFORD TO FIX THEIR EXHAUST AND
WAS FEARFUL EVERY TIME THAT
THEY HAD TO DRIVE THEIR CAR
BECAUSE OF THE THREAT OF A STOP
AND ONE WE HAVE TO STOP
CRIMINALIZING POVERTY IN THAT
WAY.
BUT I ALSO FROM MY EXPERIENCE
THERE IS A SOUPED UP MOTORCYCLE
THAT I SEE OFTEN NEAR MY
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT EVERY TIME IT
DRIVES BY EVERYBODY HAS TO STOP
THEIR CONVERSATION BECAUSE IT'S
SO LOUD AND NOBODY'S CALLING
THE POLICE ON THAT PERSON
BECAUSE THIRTY SECONDS AFTER
THEY'VE GONE BY WE'VE FORGOTTEN
ABOUT IT AND OUR LIVES HAVE
MOVED ON AND WE HAVE TO STOP
ALLOWING THIS COMFORT TRADE FOR
THIS MODEST INCONVENIENCE OR
THIS MODEST ANNOYANCE TO BE A
TRADE OFF FOR THAT THE TRUE
TRAUMA AND HARM AND DANGER THAT
INDIVIDUALS MAY BE IN IF THE
POLICE WERE CALLED ON THEM OR
THEY WERE STOPPED FOR THAT
REASON.
AND SO SO THAT IS WHY THIS IS
INCLUDED IN THE ORDINANCE AS
WELL.
AND AND I'M GRATEFUL THAT WE
DIDN'T HEAR FROM FOLKS COMING
OUT IN DROVES ASKING US TO PULL
IT OUT.
I'M GRATEFUL THAT NONE OF MY
COLLEAGUES WANTED TO DO THAT
EITHER.
AND THEN I ALSO JUST WANTED TO
VERY BRIEFLY GIVE VOICE BECAUSE
WE WE'VE HEARD A LOT ABOUT THE
IMPACT THAT THIS HAS ON MEMBERS
OF THE BLACK AND BROWN
COMMUNITY HERE HERE IN ANN
ARBOR AND FOLKS WHO ARE COMING
TO ANN ARBOR WE ACTUALLY
HAVEN'T HEARD A LOT ABOUT ALSO
THE INCREASED LEVEL OF STOPS
THAT THE LGBTQ COMMUNITY FACES
IN PARTICULARLY TRANS WOMEN AND
TRANS WOMEN OF COLOR FACE AS
WELL.
AND SO I WANT TO GIVE VOICE TO
THAT ASPECT OF THIS AS WELL
BECAUSE THIS IS ALSO AN LGBTQ
ISSUE AND I THINK I'M JUST
REALLY GRATEFUL THAT WE'RE
MOVING THIS FORWARD AND WE CAN
TAKE THIS NEXT STEP TO MAKING
SURE THAT MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMUNITY ARE SAFER.
THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN GARCIA.
I'VE ALSO THANKED COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON FOR ALL YOUR
EFFORTS AND IN BRINGING THIS
FORWARD AND I ALSO WANT TO NAME
SOMETHING THAT WE HAVEN'T
DISCUSSED A LOT ABOUT BUT THE
FACT THAT SECONDARY TRAFFIC
STOPS ARE OFTEN A SOURCE
OF REVENUE FOR CITIES AND
ACCORDING TO THE 2015 FERGUSON
REPORT RELEASED BY THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE CITIES
THAT HAVE A HIGHER PROPORTION
OF REVENUE THAT SOURCE FROM
FINES AND FEES HAVE MORE OR
MORE LIKELY TO HAVE
DISCRIMINATORY POLICING
PRACTICES LOCALLY THAT HAVE
COMMUNITY DISTRUST OF THE
POLICE OR MORE LIKELY JUST TO
NOT BE AS SAFE OF A COMMUNITY
BECAUSE THERE'S THERE'S
DISTRUST.
SO WHAT I WANT US TO THINK
OBVIOUSLY THIS IS THIS IS A
GOOD STEP IN THE RIGHT
DIRECTION.
BUT IN GENERAL HOW WE'RE
RESOURCING FINES AND FEES AND
JUST STAYING COGNIZANT OF THAT
AS WELL.
I ALSO THINK YOU REMEMBER A
DENHA FOR POINTING OUT THIS IS
ALSO AFFECTING LGBTQ DRIVERS
AND READING THE REPORT I ALSO
SAW THAT IT HAD A SIGNIFICANT
IMPACT ON ASIAN-AMERICAN MIDDLE
EASTERN DRIVERS IN THE CITY IS
ONE OF THE ONE OF THE LARGEST
ASIAN-AMERICAN POPULATIONS IN
THE STATE.
>> SOME SIGNIFICANT THANK YOU
FOR THE DISCUSSION.
SO REHEARSAL.
>> THANK YOU.
MAYOR TAYLOR, AS WE VOTE ON THE
DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE, WE
ARE NOT JUST ENACTING LAW BUT
ACT SETTING A PRECEDENT, A
PRECEDENT FOR PRIORITIZING THE
WELL-BEING OF EVERY RESIDENT
ARBOR OVER THE TEDIOUS
ENFORCEMENT OF MINOR TRAFFIC
VIOLATION.
>> WE HAVE HEARD THE VOICES
OF THOSE IMPACTED BY STOPS
DURING PUBLIC COMMENT AND
THROUGHOUT THE DELIBERATION
PROCESS.
AND TONIGHT WE ARE ACTING ON
YOUR BEHALF WILL BE GAUGED AND
WITH GROUPS SUCH AS THE VERA
INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE, THE ACLU
PAC AND PHILADELPHIA COUNCIL
MEMBER ISAIAH THOMAS HAVE BEEN
CRUCIAL IN SHAPING THIS
ORDINANCE.
THESE
ASPECT OF THIS ISSUE AND
OUR AIM TO ADDRESS THE CHRONIC
STRESS AND UNFAIR BURDEN OF LOW
LEVEL SECONDARY TRAFFIC STOPS
AND NOT MERELY A POLICY THE
ANSWER LIES IN THE LONG LASTING
AND BINDING NATURE
OF ORDINANCES.
THE POLICY IS INTERNAL, NOT
PUBLIC CANNOT BE LEGALLY
ENFORCED NOR CAN VOTERS HOLD US
ACCOUNTABLE TO IT.
AN ORDINANCE IS LAW WE SEEK TO
ENFORCE A CHANGE THAT IS
BRAZILIA FIRM AND NOT SUBJECT
TO THE VARIABILITY OF FUTURE
ADMINISTRATION ADMINISTRATIVE
DECISIONS AS WE STAND ON THE
BRINK OF VOTING ON THIS
ORDINANCE.
LET REMEMBER THE JOURNEY THAT
HAS BROUGHT US HERE THE TALES
OF HEARTBREAKING ANGUISH AND
THE CALLS FOR CHANGE HAVE BEEN
OUR GUIDING LIGHT.
I WANT TO THANK MY FELLOW
CO-SPONSORS MAYOR TAYLOR AND
CITY
STAFF THE DIRECTOR
OF ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY LORETA
,THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
AND AN EXTRA SPECIAL THANK YOU
TO OUR NEW SENIOR ASSISTANT
CITY ATTORNEY JAN DYNARSKI
WHOSE RELENTLESS DEDICATION AND
COMMITMENT HAS ALLOWED US TO
GET TO THIS POINT TODAY.
NOW IS THE TIME FOR US TO TAKE
A BOLD STEP FORWARD TO SHOW OUR
CITY AND THE NATION THAT WE
VALUE EQUITY, FAIRNESS AND
JUSTICE ABOVE ALL, WE ARE
PREPARED TO DO WHAT IS RIGHT TO
LESSEN THE BURDEN ON THOSE WHO
HAVE BEEN DISPROPORTIONATELY
AFFECTED AND TO ENSURE THAT
EVERY INTERACTION BETWEEN OUR
POLICE AND THE PUBLIC IS ROOTED
IN RESPECT AND UNDERSTANDING AS
WE CAST OUR VOTES, LET'S REMIND
OURSELVES OF THE PROFOUND
SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS MOMENT.
OUR DECISIONS TODAY WILL ECHO
FAR INTO THE FUTURE SHAPING AN
ANN ARBOR THAT IS SAFER AND
MORE EQUITABLE TO ALL OF OUR
RESIDENTS.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR UNWAVERING
COMMITMENT TO THIS CAUSE.
NOW LET'S MAKE HISTORY FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
THAT'S A HARD ONE TO FOLLOW.
BUT I'LL JUST BE BRIEF.
FUNDAMENTALLY IT IS INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT THAT OUR LAW
ENFORCEMENT FOCUS IN OUR
COMMUNITY BE THE PROMOTION
OF PUBLIC SAFETY PERFORMED WITH
PROFESSIONALISM AND WITHOUT
BIAS AND FAVOR.
THE SECONDARY STOPS ADDRESSED
BY THIS ORDINANCE ARE NOT
NECESSARY TO AFFECT PUBLIC
SAFETY.
SIMPLY PUT CRUCIALLY HOWEVER,
THEY ARE NECESSARY TO DISRUPT
THE LIVES OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
THEY CORRODE TRUST AND
CONFIDENCE BETWEEN POLICE AND
COMMUNITY AND THEY CAN LEAD TO
FEAR, TENSION AND HARM AS WE'VE
HEARD TIME AND TIME AGAIN.
I'M VERY GRATEFUL THAT
COUNCILMAN HENDERSON, CHIEF
THAT'S AND OF COURSE THE ONE
DEPARTMENT'S OTHER STAFF UP AND
DOWN THE LINE HAVE WORKED HARD
TO PUT TOGETHER AN ORDINANCE
WHICH I BELIEVE IS AN EXAMPLE
OF WHERE I HOPE OTHER
JURISDICTIONS WILL WILL QUICKLY
FOLLOW.
BUT FINALLY AND MOST
IMPORTANTLY, I'M GRATEFUL AND
I'M PROUD FOR OUR COMMUNITIES
COMMON COMMITMENT AND
IMPORTANTLY OUR ACKNOWLEDGMENT
OF THE GREAT AND COMPLEX WORK
THAT STILL NEEDS TO BE DONE TO
MAKE IT A BETTER PLACE WHERE
ALL ARE WELCOME AND WHERE ALL
FEEL AND INDEED ARE SAFE AND
RESPECTED FOR THE DISCUSSION.
WHATEVER OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
B2 IN ORDER TO AMEND SECTION
TWO ONE AND TWO AND THREE
OF CHAPTER TWENTY SIX SOLID
WASTE MANAGEMENT OF TITLE TO
AND SERVICES THE CODE THE CITY
BY COUNCILMAN MCCONNELL TAKEN
BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRINGS
DISCUSSION B TO COUNCIL MEMBER
QUINNELL.
I'M GLAD THAT YOU WENT AFTER
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND SO YOU WERE
THE ACTIVE MEMBERS WHICH JUST
TO REMIND EVERYONE OF THIS
ORDINANCE.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT MY
COLLEAGUE COUNCIL MEMBER AND I
RECEIVED AN EMAIL ABOUT FROM A
WORD BY PRESIDENT WHO WAS CITED
WAS ISSUED A CITATION FOR
PUTTING OUT A DOLLHOUSE FOR ONE
OF THEIR NEIGHBORS TO PICK UP
AND RECYCLE WITHIN THEIR OWN
HOME AND USE BY THEIR OWN
CHILDREN AND I HAD NO IDEA THAT
THIS WAS SOMETHING THAT WAS
ILLEGAL.
SO THIS ORDINANCE ALLOWS THE
CURBSIDE PLACEMENT OF HOUSEHOLD
ITEMS APPLIANCES, BIKES,
KITCHEN GADGETS, ELECTRONICS,
GARDENING TOOLS ETC. IN ANY
GOOD CONDITION CAN BE PLACED
NEAR THE CURB ONCE A WEEK FOR
48 HOURS THEY CAN BE PLACED IN
THE PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY IN FRONT
OF THE PROPERTY THAT IS OWNER
OCCUPIED BY THAT PERSON.
THE ITEM MAY NOT BE PLACED IN
ROADWAY, SIDEWALK OR ANY PATH
OF TRAVEL THUS ENSURING SAFE
SAFE TRAVEL THROUGHOUT THE CITY
MAY NOT IMPEDE VISION OR CREATE
ANY PHYSICAL OBSTRUCTION FOR
PEDESTRIANS, VEHICLE OPERATORS
OR BICYCLISTS AND MUST BE
CLEARLY LABELED THAT THEY ARE
INTENDED FOR DONATION OR REUSE
.
AND SO THIS IN MY MIND IS A NO
BRAINER.
IT'S ENCOURAGING OUR ZERO GOALS
IN PROMOTING THE CIRCULAR
ECONOMY THAT WE WANT TO PROMOTE
WITHIN THE CITY.
>> SO I WILL BE SUPPORTING IT
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL NO
BREAKS REALLY NOT MUCH TO ADD
TO WHAT CAST MEMBER CANALSIDE I
JUST WANTED TO ALSO THANK
CO-SPONSORS FROM THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN AND
TISSUE YEAH.
FOR THEIR SUPPORT ON THIS AND I
THINK THIS IS JUST VERY MUCH IN
LINE WITH OBVIOUSLY OUR
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS.
WE HAD A RESOLUTION WE
SUPPORTED EARLIER AROUND
FUNDING FOR PROJECTS THIS SORT
OF THING IN TERMS OF PROMOTING
THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND ALSO
IT'S JUST A GOOD WAY TO PROMOTE
COMMUNITY.
IT'S THIS IS A GOOD WAY THAT
PRESIDENTS ARE INTERACTING
POSITIVELY WITH THEIR NEIGHBORS
.
SO AND FINALLY I WOULD JUST
LIKE TO THANK ATTORNEY RICER
FOR ALL OF HIS SUPPORT AND
GUIDANCE AND WORK WITH ALL THE
DIFFERENT DEPARTMENTS TO TO GET
TO WHERE WE'RE AT TONIGHT.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION MEL FABER POSED.
IT IS APPROVED.
>> DO WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY?
>> NO, THANK YOU.
ME THE LAST BEFORE IT'S A
CRUCIAL PART OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITION WONDERFALLS.
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CLERK'S SUPPORT
MOVE BY COUNCILOR WATSON.
SECOND MY CUSTOMER GOOSY EDWYN
DISCUSSION OF THE COX REPORT ON
FAVOR PAUSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED BY THE
COMMUNICATIONS VERY FIRM FROM
OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
NO THANK YOU.
MAY SOMEDAY SOMEDAY PERHAPS
THERE HAVING BEEN NO PUBLIC
COMMENT OVER FROM MAY I HAVE A
MOTION PICTURE AND PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER EXECUTIVE
COUNCIL MCCRINDLE DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED FOR DIRNT